CORI 
UNIVERSITY 
LIBRARY 



Cornell University Library 

F 127 .T6G28 



Historical oazetteer of Tloaa County, Ne 




3 1924 024 792 420 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924024792420 



PART FIRST. 
HISTORICAL 

;azetteer 



-OF- 



Tioga County, New York, 
1785-1888. 



COMPILED AND EDITED 



-BY- 



W. B. GAY, 



JF SIMILAE works for RUTLAND, ADDISON, CHITTENDEN, FRANKLIN^ 

'ND ISLE, LAMOILLE, ORLEANS, WINDSOR, ESSEX, CALEDONIA, 

AND WINDHAM COUNTIES, IN VERMONT, BERKSHIRE AND 

HAMPSHIRE COUNTIES, IN MASSACHUSETTS, AND 

CHESHIRE, AND GRAFTON COUN^ 

TIES, IN NEW HAMPSHIRE. 



MANBNT OFPIOB SYRAOUSB, N. Y. 



that hath much to do, will do something wrong, and of that wrong must suffer the^ 
;nces ; and if it w«re possible that he should always act rightly, yet when such num- 
to judge of his conduct, the bad will censure and obstruct him by malevolenc^jflnol 
sometimes by mistake." — Samuel Johnson. 



PUBLISHED BY 

W. B. GAY & CO., 

Syracuse, N. Y. 



The Syra-Ottse Journal Oompaht, 
printers and binders. 

SYRAOnSB, H. T. 



INTRODUCTION. 



In presenting to the public the " Historical Gazetteer and 
Directory" of Tioga county, we desire to return our sincere 
thanks to all who have kindly aided in obtaining the information 
it contains, and rendered it possible to present it in the brief 
space of time in which it is essential such works, should be com- 
pleted. Especially are our thanks due to the editors and man- 
agers of the county papers for the uniform kindness they have 
evinced in calling public attention to our efforts, and for ,essential 
aid in furnishing material for the work. We have also found 
valuable aid in the following: Judge Avery's "Susquehanna 
Valley" papers; Everts' " History of Four Counties; " French's 
"Gazetteer of New York;" Child's "Gazetteer of Broome and 
Tioga Counties ; " Wilkinson's " Annals of Binghamton ; " Hon. 
W. F. Warner's " Centennial History ; " and in various pamphlets 
and manuscripts, while those who have aided us by extended per- 
sonal effort we have credited in the pages where their work 
occurs. 

That errors have occurred in so great a number of names is/ 
probable, and that names have been omitted which should have 
been inserted is quite certain. We can only say that we have 
exercised more than ordinary diligence and care in this difficult 
and complicated feature of book-making. Of such as feel aggrieved 
in consequence of errors or omissions, we beg pardon, and ask the 
indulgence of the reader in noting such as have been observed 
in the subsequent reading of the proofs and which are found cor- 
rected in the Errata. 



4 INTRODUCTION. 

It was designed to give a brief account of all the churcli and 
other societies in the county, but owing in some cases to the neg- 
ligence of those who were able to give the necessary information, 
and in others to the inability of any one to do so, we have been 
obliged to omit special notices of a few. 

We would suggest that our patrons observe and become famil- 
iar with the explanations at the commencement of the Directory 
on page 3, Part Second. The names it embraces, and the inform- 
ation connected therewith, were obtained by actual canvass, and 
are as correct and reliable as the judgment of those from whom 
they were solicited renders possible. Each agent is furnished 
with a map of the town he is expected to canvass, and he is 
required to pass over every road and call at every dwelling and 
place of business in the town in order to obtain the facts from 
the individuals coheerned, whenever possible. 

The margins have been left broad to enable anyone to note 
changes opposite the names. 

While thanking our patrons and friends generally for the cor- 
diality with which our efforts have been seconded, we leave the 
work to secure that favor which earnest endeavor ever wins from 
a discriminating public, hoping taey will bear in mind, should 
errors be noted, that " he who expects a perfect work to see, 
expects what ne'er was, is, nor yet shall be." 

W. B. GAY. 

M. F. ROBERTS. 



GAZETTEER 



OF 




DUTY, NEW YOIIK. 



*CHAPTER I. 

' ' Tribes of the solemn League ! from ancient seats 
Swept by the whites hke autumn leaves away, 
Faint are your records of heroic feats 
And few the traces of your former sway. " — HosMER.f 

Aborigines, Origin and Antiquity of — The Carantouannais — The 
Onnon-tiogas — The Iroquois — Indian Wars — Land Titles— Indian: 
Village at Owego — Tioga Point — Sir William Johnson's Expedi- 
tion — The Revolution — Sullivan's Expedition — Close of Indian" 
Dominion. 

ETHNOLOGY has no more inviting and, yet more difficult 
field of inquiry thap that pertaining to the origin and his- 
tory of those aboriginal races, which for unknown ages; 
prior to the advent of the European, had occupied, and swayed 
the destinies of the American continent. A^ puzzle to the scholar 
and antiquary for nearly four centuries, and giving rise to various 
theories which have generally proved far more ingenious than 
convincing ; nevertheless it has been by no means a fruitless 

* Prepared by Prof. James Riker, of Waveriy, member of the historical societies ■ of 
New York, Long Island, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, the N. E. Hist, and 
Gen. Soe. , and N. Y. Gen. and Biog. Soc, ; and author of Annals of Newtown, History of 
Harlem, St. Bartholomew, If/^, Capt. Van Arsdale and Evacuation Day, lySj, etc. 

f These lines, which head a chapter of the late Judge Charles P. Avery's, The Susque- 
hanna Valley, (page 244, St. Nicholas magazine), are from a poem by Col. William Howe 
'IpHyler Hosmer, who married a sister of Judge Avery. He was born at Avon, N. Y. . in 
1815, and was well known as the " Bard of Avon." 

a* 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



study. By the reflex light of Indian tradition and history, and 
the concurrent testimony of the mounds, defensive works, war 
weapons, domestic utensils, tumuh, and other surviving relics of 
those races, we read, in faint but pathetic outline, the strange 
story of nations once numerous and powerful, but long since dis- 
possessed or exterminated. 

A statement of some general conclusions arrived at by eminent 
students of Indian archeology will be found to have a bearing 
upon the special inquiry before us. Wilson, in his work entitled 
Prehistoric Man, concurring in an opinion advanced long before his 
time, observes : " Some analogies confirm the probability of a 
portion of the North American stock having entered the conti- 
nent from Asia by Behring's straits or the Aleutian islands, atid 
more probably by the latter than the former." But Morgan, in 
his Indian Migrations, emphasizes this opinion, by cogent argu- 
ments, which tend to prove that the aboriginal peopling of North 
America began at the northwest coast and spread by degrees 
southward and eastward, till, in process of time, the remotest 
portions of the continent were occupied. That this race was of 
Tartar origin, many analogies and evidences seem to prove, — 
■"physical considerations, and the types of man in northeastern 
Asia point to this section of Asia as the source, and to the Aleu- 
tian islands as the probable avenue, of this antecedent migration." 
But again, " the systems of consanguinity and affinity of several 
Asiatic stocks agree with that of the American aborigines." This 
remarkable fact bears with equal force upon the original identity of 
the North American tribes, affording, says Morgan, " the strong- 
est evidence yet obtained of the unity of origin of the Indian 
nations within the region we have defined." And this is further 
strengthened by the uniform agreement in the structure of their 
languages, and their stage of development, — though the lan- 
guages themselves form many dialects, of which the Algonquin 
and the Iroquois are taken as the two principal representative 
groups. 

The multiplication of tribes, the differences of dialect and loca- 
tion, the division and subdivision into the roving Indians, who 
subsisted by fishing, hunting and war, and the village tribes 
whose maintenance was chiefly from agriculture, were but the 
results of time, and the struggle for supremacy inseparable from 
the barbaric state. The former of these two classes were neces- 
sarily the more numerous and warlike, the latter more advanced 
in the knowledge of useful arts. From a variety of considera- 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



tions we may conclude that for ages before its discovery by 
Columbus, the American continent was the scene of sanguinary 
wars, a perpetual and fierce struggle for the mastery, which 
could only result in the subjugation, expulsion, or extinction of 
the weaker, and in the temporary elevation of the stronger race. 
A natural result was to render these nations unstable in their 
possessions, which were theirs only so long as they could hold them 
per force of numbers and arms. It has been argued with much 
probability, that the Indians found in central New York, when 
first known to Europeans, were only the successors of other peoples 
-of more ancient date, and farther advanced than they in the arts 
■of civilized life. But at what era, or by what agency, the more 
-cultured race had befen made to succumb to the ruder tribes sub- 
sequently found here, is unknown to history. 

It is this reign of barbarism, and deadly strife for supremacy, 
which at once confronts us upon our earliest introduction to this 
immediate locality, whose history we are now considering. At 
the dawn of the sixteenth century, it was within the domain of a 
tribe of savages, whom Champlain, * with his imperfect knowl- 
•edge of this people, denominates the Carantouannais, and which, 
(from its French suffix, would mean, the people of Carantouan ; 
'but we strongly suspect the term to be nothing else than an 
.attempt at the name Susquehanna. 

They were reputed to be a very warlike clan, and able to keep 
at bay the numerous foes who dwelt around them, though, accord- 
ing to Champlain, they composed but three villages. These 
were quite distant from each other, along the Susquehanna and 
Chemung rivers, but were all fortified towns. The principal one, 
their chief stronghold, occupied that singular eminence near 
Waverly, familiarly known as " Spanish Hill." Another of these 
towns was located, according to a reliable authority, fat the north- 
■ern angle of the junction of Sugar creek with the Susquehanna 
river, in the borough of North Towanda ; the third town, prob- 
ably, being the well known work on the south side of the Che- 
mung river, near Elmira. They thus commanded the stretch of 
■country now comprising the three adjoining counties, — Tioga 
and Chemung, and Bradford, in Pennsylvania. Their principal 
seat, before mentioned, bore the Indian name of Onnon-tioga, sig- 

*Les Voyages de la Nouvelle France, Paris, 1632. See extracts, translated, in Documen- 
■iarji History of New York, vol. 3, p. I. 

■j-Gen. John S. Clark, of Auburn, N. Y., to whom we are indebted for having first 
indicated the sites occupied by these Indian villages. See Waverly Advocate, May 17, 1878. 



8 TIOGA COUNTY. 



nifying the village on the hill between the rivers; the intervale 
below, where Athens is now situated, being simply called Tioga, — 
pronounced te-yoge-gah, — and meaning between the rivers, or at the 
forks. These three villages, says Champlain, lay in the midst of 
more than twenty others, against which they waged war. Among- 
these he no doubt includes the Iroquois, who were hostile to the 
Onnon-tiogas, from whom their nearest castles were only about 
thirty miles distant. 

To the northward of the Qnnon-tiogas was a large country, 
then famous tor " the deer and beaver hunting," — its limits the 
shores of Lake Ontario, but reaching westward to the Genesee 
river, and eastward down the Mohawk. Here lay the scattered! 
castles and settlements of the Iroquois, otherwise called the Five 
Nations, who at no remote period anterior to this date, had been 
driven from the northern side of the lake and the north bank of 
the St. Lawrence, by the then more warlike Adirondacks, of 
Canada, a branch of the Algonquin race. 

The Iroquois, with their congeners, the Hurons, Eries, Susque- 
hannas, etc., were marked by language and personal traits sufifi- 
cient to distinguish them from the numerous other tribes classed 
under the generic term of Algonquins ; but it has been ably 
argued that they too were of Tartar or Asiatic extraction.. 
The rough handling they had received from the Adirondacks 
produced a mortal enmity, and wrought a marvelous change in 
the Iroquois, who by giving themselves to a regular course of 
training, 'from being simple cornplanters, became brave and ex- 
pert wariors. Supplied with firearms, through their traffic with 
the Dutch traders on the Hudson, the skill they acquired in the 
use of this new weapon, soon made them more than a match for 
their enemies, and wholly diverted them to war and conquest. 
Among the first to feel the weight of their arms were the adja- 
cent Shaouonons (whom Schoolcraft makes the same as the 
Shawnees), within whose limits, as would appear, they had tres- 
passed when they fled thither from the Adirondacks. These 
were no insignificailt foe, — so warlike, haughty and cruel, that the 
Dutch called them Satanas ! Victory, however, turned in favor 
of the invincible Iroquois, who drove the Satanas from their lands,, 
and forced them to retire westward, save a portion of the tribe 
which submitted to the conquerors and became tributary. This 
conquest, which datfed about the year 1620, extended the area of 
the Iroquois country (beginning with the Onondagas), to a dis- 
tance of "sixty miles" southward from Lake Ontario, and west- 



TIOGA COUNTY. 9 



ward to Niagara..* Fired by success, the Iroquois, and especi- 
ally the Mohawks, thirsted to avenge themselves upon the Adi- 
rondacks, and in a series of encounters the latter were finally van- 
quished and almost annihilated. The Mohawks also subdued 
the Mohicans, on the upper Hudson, subsequently completing 
their subjugation by pursuing them down that river nearly to 
Manhattan, and destroying their castles at Wickquaskeek, in West- 
chester. Meanwhile the other four tribes, — the Onondaga, 
Oneida, Cayuga and Seneca, — turned their arms, in 1653, against 
a tribe occupying the southeastern boader of Lake Erie, and 
hence called the Eries, or otherwise (from Erie which signifies 
fa{), the Cat Indians. This name is given by the Canadians to 
the Shawnees, and which favors the belief that the Eries were no 
other than the expelled Satanas, still unsubdued, antt whom the 
relentless Iroquois were bound to extirpate. Two years com- 
pleted -this conquest ; and it would appear that it was immediately 
followed by the final war upon, and overthrow of the Onnon- 
tiogas, seated as before stated, upon the Susquehanna and Che- 
mung rivers. 

If the Onnon-tiogas were of Algonquin stock, it would account 
for the enmity the Iroquois had shown toward this tribe for at 
least a half century ; but if they were Susquehannas, as we think 
they were, and who, according to Morgan, were congener to 
the Iroquois,-then we probably find the reason for this hostility 
in a family feud ; and what wars have been more bitter and 
more deadly than those waged between kindred ? However, it 
happened that Champlain, governor of Canada, unwisely took up 
the quarrel of the Adirondacks with the Iroquois, as early as 1609. 
Entering the Mohawk country, by way of the Sorel river, he met 
and defeated a party of Mohawks, on the bank of Lake Cham- 
plain, who fled in dismay at the discharge of muskets, it being 
their first introduction to this deadly weapon, afterwards made 
so efficient in their hands. Six years later (1615), Champlain, 
with a force of French, Adirondacks and Hurons, made a descent 
by way of Lake Ontario, upon the castle of the Onondagas. The 
invaders had an offer from the Onnon-tiogas to assist them with 
five hundred of their wariors, and when Champlain was ready, 
he dispatched messengers to inform that distant tribe that he had 



*By referring to a map of the state, it will be seen that this conquest must have reached 
a line nearly identical with the northern limits of the southern tier of counties. At that 
date, therefore, Tioga county was not yet a part of the Iroquois country. See a deed in 
" Doc. Hist, of N. v., I : 773. 



10 TIOGA COUNTY. 



begun his march, so they might meet at the same time before the 
enemy's fort. The party, consisting of twelve of the most reso- 
lute Indians and a French interpeter named Stephen Brule, pro- 
ceeded in canoes across the lake and reached Onnon-tioga by a 
circuitous route, which they took for fear of being intercepted by 
the Chouatouarouon, or otherwise the Cayugas. The Onnon- 
tiogas gave them a warm greeting, entertaining them with feast- 
ing and dancing, as was their custom. But so much time was 
thus wasted, that the reinforcement did not reach the fort until 
two days after Champlain had abandoned the siege. The party 
therefore returned to Onnon-tioga, accompanied by Brule, who 
spent the winter with them, and in visiting neighboring tribes j 
during, which he descended the Susquehanna to the sea, return- 
ing again to his new-made friends, the Onnon-tiogas, and of all 
which he afterwards gave Champlain a full account. He described 
the castle at Onnon-tioga as situate'd in a beautiful and rich 
country, in a commanding position, well fortified by earthworks 
and pallisades, after tlie manner of the Hurons, and containing 
more than eight hundred warriors. 

This attempt of the Onnon-tiogas to aid the Adi'rondacks 
against the Iroquois only aroused the latter to new acts of hos- 
tility, and the former were soon after assailed by a party of 
Mohawks and their Mohican allies, who had descended the north 
branch of the Susquehanna, and with whom were, several adven- 
turous Dutchmen from the trading post on the Hudson. But the 
assailants were repulsed, and three Dutchmen were taken prison-, 
ers. The Onnon-tiogas, never having seen any of this nation, took 
them for Frenchmen, and therefore spared their lives, and con- 
veyed them to the coast, by the Susquehanna and Delaware 
rivers, where falling in with a Dutch explorer, Capt. Hendrick- 
sen, he procured their ransom. 

It only remained for the Iroquois to effectually arm himself 
with the resistless musket, in order to deal the final blow to the 
hated Onnon-tiogas. Of the details of this tragic event, history 
is silent. It is only intimated that they " were conquered and 
incorporated with the Five Nations." Doubtless they were 
driven from their position with slaughter, and their strong works 
demolished, of which some of the debris was visible long after this 
section was settled by the whites, and parts of the earthworks 
being even yet plainly traceable.* It may be inferred that the 



•Spanish Hill. — The earliest mention of this name I have found, is in Gordon's 
Gazetteer, 1836, though his predecessor Stafford, in 1813, speaks of the hill, as from 100 to 



TIOGA COUNTY. n 



Onondagas and Cayugas were the chief instruments in their sub- 
jugation, as these two tribes, a little later, claim the land along 
the Susquehanna ; saying that it belongs to them alone, and that 
" the other three nations, viz : the Senecas, Oneidas and Maquaas, 
have nothing to do with it." 

Flushed with victory, the Iroquois led their devastating war 
parties down the Susquehanna, scattering the nations on its banks, 
till in 1676, their conquests here culminated in the overthrow of 
the Andastes, a part of the Susquehannas, and then "the sole 
enemies remaining on their hands," and by the destruction of 
their castles. The neighboring Delawares had also submitted to 
the conquerors, being stripped of all rights in their lands, forbid- 
den to use arms, and reduced to the condition of "women." 
Subsequently, however, their " uncles," the Six Natioiffe, assigned 
them a home at Tioga, " and lighted a council fire there." 

But we have no need longer to follow the fierce Iroquois in the 
bloody war-path, which was kept well trodden till their insatiate 
greed of conquest had subjugated the most distant tribes ; it is 
enough for our purpose to have shown in what manner this sec- 
tion of country whose history we are reviewing, came to pass 
under their iron domination. 

Another contest now opened, bl6odless but obstinate, waged 
to settle the question, which of the English colonies should reap 

no feet high, "and which correspondents describe as apparently a work of art." But in 
neither of his two editions does Stafford give its name ; an omission calculated to cast 
doubt upon its supposed antiquity. Yet w'ith a knowledge of the fact that Spanish adven- 
turers, in the sixteenth century, explored many parts of our countr)' in search of gold, 
and actually pushed their search to the shores o Lake Ontario, one can scarcely resist the 
conviction that the name of Spanish Hill has some association with those old gold seekers. 
Gordon states that at that date (1836), on the summit of the hill were "vestiges of fortifica- 
tions, displaying much skill in the art of defense, having regular intrenchments, which per- 
fectly commanded the bend of the river." .A.nd, says Hon. W. F. Warner, "this breastwork is 
still easily and distinctly traceable around the entire brow of the hill, even now, after fifty years 
of cultivation of the surface. It was of considerable height before the plateau was denuded of 
its trees, and must have been a formidable work. Well defined remains of an inner fortifica- 
tion may also be seen at the center of the hill, extending from the steeper part on the east 
side, to the steeper part on the west side. " General Clark finds by actual survey ' ' that the 
area enclosed by the embankment contains about ten acres. " At the west side of the hill, 
upon a plateau near its base, are also remains of an Indian burying ground. ' ' That a 
frightful contest took place at or near Spanish Hill," says Mr. Warner, " is more than prob- 
able ; * ^ it is also a well established fact, that the Indians had a superstitious fear 
about the hill, so strong that they would not go upon it. So sanguinary a contest, while 
it would have added to the glory and courage of the Iroquois, still would have left in the 
savage mind a horror of the spot where so many of their braves had fallen. " Mr. Warner here 
refers to a supposed battle between the savages and Spaniards, and whence the hill may have 
taken its name. But leaving the derivation of the name out of the question, as too uncer- 
tain ; would not the slaughter by the Iroquois of their own kinsmen, the Onnon-tiogas, 
better account for that peculiar dread, which, we are told, the sight of the hill always, 
inspired in the Indians ? We suggest this with much deference to our esteemed townsman, 
whose views upon our local antiquities are not to be lightly set aside. 



12 TIOGA COUNTY. 

the most advantage from the Iroquois conquests ; New York and 
Pennsylvania were the chief contestants. It was argued that if 
the latter province got control of the Susquehanna river, she would 
also control the trade with the Iroquois, and divert it from 
Albany to Philadelphia. As the fur trade was a mine of wealth 
to the Albanians, and told upon the prosperity of the whole 
province, it was of great consequence to secure it. New York 
had greatly the advantage from the length of time she had 
enjoyed this trade; and from having kept unbroken the '-'cove- 
nants of friendship " made with the Iroquois tribes, as early as 
1623, when Albany was first colonized. The Cayugas, who with 
the Onondagas claimed the conquered lands on the Susquehanna, 
were at first willing and urgent to have some white men settle 
upon that river, for their greater convenience in trading ; but 
the Albanians, for obvious reasons, brought every influence to 
bear to prevent it, and were successful. In the year 1679, the 
Cayugas and Onondagas, in virtue of their sole ownership, pro- 
ceeded to make over these conquered lands to the government 
of New York ; and four years later, while William Haig, agent 
for Penn, was at Albany, trying to effect a purchase of those 
lands, these tribes formally ratified "the gift and conveyance" 
to New York, by an instrument dated September 26, 1683. It 
included all the conquered country upon the Susquehanna, as 
far down as the Washinta, or Falls, and therefore covered the 
present Tioga county.* The Indians " accepted in full satisfac- 
tion : a half piece of duffels cloth ; two blankets ; two guns; three 
kettles ; four coats ; fifty pounds of lead ; twenty-five pounds of 
powder." To which was added the promise: "the Governor 
will compensate you therefor, when occasion permits." 

The effect of this transfer was to exclude white settlers from 
this region of country, and to extend over it, for another full 
century, the long dismal night of aboriginal barbarism. Very 
little is known of the Indian history of Tioga county during 
this period. On the, Susquehanna, which skirts or intersects its 
southern tier of townships, and at that time served as a great 
highway for Indian travel, was the only known Indian town and 
planting grounds within the county limits, — Owegy, or Owego ; 



* Morgan, in the League of the Iroquois, a high authority, places this county within the 
territoritv of the Cayugas and Onondagas. Next eastward of the latter were the Tusca- 1 
roras, a tribe expelled from South Carolina in 1712, and received by the Iroquois who 
thence became the Six Nations. The Onondagas gave the Tuscaro'ras a part of their 
country. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 1 3 



while the interior was a primeval wild of stately forest, and 
reserved as hunting grounds, where the ingenious beaver built 
his dam thwart purling stream, and the bear, wolf and panther, 
the timid elk and deer, roamed freely at will. In the nature of 
the case, its history, what there was of it, could deal only in 
exploits of the hunter, the march and counter-march of savage 
hordes, and in deeds of carnage and cruelty, which, if known, 
would be only too painful to recite. 

Tioga Point, occupied by Delawares, was a famous stopping- 
place for the Indians when on their expeditions; from it radiated 
their well-beaten trails, east, west, north and south, to the remot- 
est tribes and localities. The occupation of the Point by the 
Delawares, dated from 1742. There lived and ruled their king, 
Tiedescung, a shrewd and influential chief, who in ifss> during 
the French war, incited his Indians to bloody raids upon the 
English settlements. After two years he made peace, when he 
removed his seat to Wyoming. The same year other bands of 
hostiles, formed about Tioga, fell upon the frontier settlements 
of Orange and Ulster counties. In 1763, war was renewed by a 
fearful massacre, committed by the Delawares at Wyoming. 
Early the next year. Sir William Johnson, Indian agent on the 
Mohawk, sent two hundred Oneidas and Tuscaroras to chastise 
them, and who, on February 26th, surprised a large party on 
their way to attack our settlements, led by a son of King Tiedes- 
eung, the noted Captain Bull, whose hatred of the whites was 
intense, and had led him to do them great injury. Bull and 
iorty of his men were taken prisoners. Thereupon the De.la- 
wares fled from the Susquehanna and its vicinity, escaping up 
the Chemung to the country of the Genesees, a sub-tribe of the 
Senecas, by whom they had been encouraged to take up the 
hatchet. Another party sent out by Johnson, followed in the 
wake of the fugitives, and destroyed the villages Coshocton and 
Canisteo. They also burnt three towns and four villages on and 
near the Susquehanna river, with quantities of corn. Peace 
again followed. 

But the first notes of the Revolution was a signal for the upris- 
ing of the Six Nations, whose tribes, save only the Oneidas and 
Tuscaroras, espoused the British cause. In the spring of 1777, a 
large body of these, numbering about seven hundred warriors, 
assembled in camp near Owego,* ready to strike a blow at the 

*At this date Owego was a large Indian village of about twenty houses. It was burnt 
Augflst 19, 1779, with its iields of standing corn, by order of General Clinton, on his way 



14 TIOGA COUNTY. 



unprotected settlements, on the advance of an expected British 
force up the Hudson ; but upon the approach of St. Leger from 
the north, these Indians went to his assistance, which was fol- 
lowed by a repulse at Oriskany, and at Fort Schuyler, by an 
inglorious flight. These hostile tribes, now found it safe to 
retreat westward to the Seneca country and the British post at 
Niagara. From this quarter came all the aggressive movements 
of the Indians against our frontier settlements during that war. 
It was by way of the Chemung and Susquehanna that the 
infamous John Butler, with his Indians and Tories (embarking 
on floats and rafts at Tioga Point), proceeded in 1778 to the 
fearful massacre at Wyoming. The noted chief, Joseph Brant, 
to whom many of the horrors of that period are justly attributed, 
did not participate in the Wyoming tragedy, being then on an 
expedition to burn Springfield at the head of Otsego lake ; but he 
took part, the same season, in the ruthless massacre at Cherry 
Valley. In the interim since the affair at Wyoming, Colonel 
Hartley, of the Continental forces, ascended the Susquehanna, as 
tar as Tioga Point, where he burnt the Indian village of about 
twenty houses, having also destroyed Queen Esther's castle, 
which stood a little below, on the west side of the Susquehanna, 
and was the seat of that noted squaw chieftain. 

By the same route, the Chemung and Susquehanna, the Indians 
and rangers, under Br^nt and Butler, proceeded in 1779, to the 
bloody battle of Minisink. Brant met and joined this expedition 
as he was returning from the ravage of Fantin-kill, in Ulster 
county. The speedy retribution visited upon these murderous 
bands, by General Sullivan's forces, the same year, when they 
were signally defeated at Newtown, and their country devas- 
tated, is too well known to require any further notice here. It 
was a blow from which the Indians never recovered, though 
petty depredations, by small parties from Niagara, who passed. 
this way to reach the white settlements, were kept up till the 
close of the war. The very next year Brant came through here,, 
with some sixty of his warriors, destined for Schoharie. Cross- 
ing the Susquehanna at Tioga Point, on rafts, he detached eleven 
Indians on the trail to Minisink, to secure prisoners or scalps, 
which latter, at Niagara, would bring them eight dollars apiece. 



down the river to join Sullivan. The Indians had deserted it on his approach. ' ' This is 
the Indian town that Sergeant Hunter was carried to, who was taken 10th November last 
[1778] below Cherry Valley, on this same river, as he was returning with his Scout " 
Sullivan's Indian Expedition, • p. 202. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 1 5 



Brant, when within thirty miles of the fort at Schoharie, sur- 
prised a party who had gone out under Captain Alex. Harper, 
to scout, and also to make maple sugar. Three of these were 
killed in the tirst onslaught, and the rest taken prisoners ; their 
lives being spared only through the finesse of Captain Harper,, 
who was personally known to Brant. With his captives Brant 
returned to Tioga Point and had gone a little way up the Che- 
mung, when the whooping of his Indians was suddenly answered 
by the startling death yell! It proceeded from some of the 
party who had gone to Minisink. They had succeeded in tak- 
ing five white men, and had brought them as far as. the east side 
of the Susquehanna, opposite Tioga Point, when, during the 
night; the anxious prisoners managed to loosen their bands, and 
to dispatch nine of the sleeping Indians, with their o\^n toma- 
hawks. The other two, one of whom was badly wounded, fled, 
crossed the river, and were resting near Chemung, when Brant's 
party came up. On hearing what had happened, the infuriated 
Indians were for killing their prisoners at once ; when strangely 
enough, the unhurt survivor of the Minisink party, who was a 
chief, and had known the prisoners at Schoharie, interposed and 
saved their lives. They were then taken on to Niagara. 

With the close of the war, in 1783, which put an end, not only 
to these atrocities, but to Indian dominion in this fair region, 
and opened it to civilization, we must conclude this summary of 
its aboriginal history. 

Much has been said laudatory of the Iroquois; writers have 
been fascinated with the genius ol their confederacy, the wis- 
dom and eloquence of their counsellors, and the extent of their 
dominion. But let calm reason prevail. • They are worthy of as 
much admiration as an Alexander, or a Napoleon, ambitious, 
rapacious conquerors, who waded through seas of blood to the 
acquisition of spoils, territory, power and glory. An occasional 
instance of justice or humanity will not suffice to hide from view 
the savage butcheries which mainly fill up the Indian annals. 
That, as human, they were not devoid of generous instincts, none 
will deny, and a consideration of their better characteristics, 
curious customs and home life, might have relieved in some 
degree the dark picture here presented ; but as the Indian tribes 
differed but little in- these respects, it has been deemed unneces- 
sary to repeat, in this brief essay, details already familiar to most 
readers. 



l6 ' TIOGA COUNTY. 



CHAPTER II. 

The Boston Purchase*— Coxe's Manor — Township of Hambden 

FORMED^GOSPEL TRACTS — NeW TowN ErECTED IN MONTGOMERY 

County —W ATKINS AND Flint Purchase. 

NO MAN of the present generation had a better opportunity 
to study the history of this region than the late Judge 
Charles P. Avery, of Owego, and no man was better quali- 
fied to write it. In i8S3 he published a series of articles, under the 
general title of The Susquehanna Valley, in the St. Nicholas^ a liter- 
ary magazine published monthly at Owego. So few copies of 
this magazine are now known to exist, and so few of our readers 
can have access to them, that for their benefit we quote a few para- 
graphs from the number for December, 1853, pages 297-303. 

" Soon after the close of the revolutionary war, Massachusetts 
claimed, under her original charter from the crown, a large body 
of land lying within the limits of the State of New York. In the 
final disposition of this claim, by award of arbitrators in 1786, 
that state became the owner, subject, of course to the Indian title, 
of several millions of acres lying in the western part of our state, 
and also 230,400 acres upon the Susquehanna river, lying between 
the Chenango river and the Owego creek, then called a river, 
and embracing in extent, very nearly the westerly half of the 
county of Broome, and the easterly half of the county of Tioga, 
as the boundaries of these two counties now are. 

" That claim of Massachusetts forms a link, not an unimportant 
one, in the chain of interesting events which mark the early his- 
tory ot our state. By reason of its general interest a brief space 
may therefore be devoted profitably to a statement of the grounds 
upon which it was based ; and inasmuch as its history will serve 
to elucidate some important facts directly connected with the 
pioneer opening of this portion of the Susquehanna valley, a cur- 
sory examination of its historical features seems peculiarly 
adapted to our ' Gleanings.' 

" In the year 1606 a grant of land lying chiefly within the pres-' 
ent limits of the United States was made by James I., king of 
England. It comprised in width upon the Atlantic sea-board, all 
the land between the fortieth and forty-eighth degrees, north lati- 
tude, and extending in a belt of that width, westerly from sea to 



♦Prepared by D. Williams Patterson, genealogist, o£ Newark Valley, whose extensive 1 
researches into the history of the settlement and growth of this section have brought him a 
knowledge of the subject equalled by that of none other. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 1 7 

sea. It was known as the Plymouth Grant, for the reason that 
it was made to persons many of whom lived in Plymouth, 
England. 

" The Crown gave to the great Plymouth council, as it was 
called, which was incorporated in the year 1620, the rieht to 
transfer any portions of this land, comprised within those degrees 
of latitude, in such parcels or quantities as the council might 
deem best. Accordingly, in the year 1628, the Massachusetts 
Bay grant was made in due form, the boundaries of which were 
the Merrimac on the north, the Charles river on the south, ' and 
in that width running west from the Atlantic ocean to the South 
sea on the west part.' This was confirmed as a charter by 
Charles I., in the 3'ear 1629. 

" Next in order came the Connecticut grant of 1630, which was 
like the preceding one, part and parcel of the Plymouth grant, 
and, like it, its easterly and westerly limits were 'the two seas. ' This 
was renewed and confirmed by Charles IL, in 1662, ?i^ith the 
usual charter to establish a government, make laws, etc. The 
southeast corner of the State of New York, lying within the 
north and south lines of this grant was never claimed to have 
been included within it ; for that portion of our state at the time 
it was originally made by the Plymouth council, as well as at the 
time when it was confirmed, was possessed and owned by the 
Dutch. 

" It may be mentioned in this connection, that the grant made 
afterward, (in 1681), by Charles II. to William Penn, of the terri- 
tory included within the limits of Pennsylvania conflicted with 
this previously granted and confirmed Connecticut charter, out 
of which conflicting claims that long train of troublesome and 
bloody affairs eminated at Wyoming, known as the Yankee 
and Pennamite feud, commencing before and resumed after the 
revolutionary war, between the settlers holding under those 
respective titles. 

" Our New York charter dates in 1664, having been given by 
Charles II. to his brother the Duke of York and Albany, in honor of 
whom, after the surrender of the island of Manhattan by the Dutch, 
to the English, the city of New York, before that called New 
Amsterdam, took its present name. Soon afterward, upon the 
reduction of Fort Orange, where Albany is now situated, that 
place received its present name, also in honor of the Duke. 

" At the close of the revolutionary struggle Massachusetts for- 
mally interposed her claim, under her royal charter of 1628, 
which was dated, as will be observed, prior to the one confirmed 
to the Duke of York, and insisted upon her legal right to a belt 
of land lying in the state of New York, comprised within the 
northern and southern bounds of her original grant, extending 
across the State of New York, and, by its terms from ' sea to sea.' 

" The state of New York resisted the claim, but both parties 
were too patriotic to make it the cause of civil strife. The blood 
of their sons had scarcely yet grown cold which had been profus- 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



€ly shed upon a common altar. They peaceably petitioned con- 
gress for the appointment of commissioners to examine the res- 
pective claims and make a final arbitrament which, it was agreed, 
should be binding upon both. 

" Ten commissioners* were appointed, pursuant to the petition, 
in whom the parties in difference had the utmost confidence, for 
they were men of established integrity, and known ability, and 
the two states appeared before them, by their agents and counsel, 
at Hartford, in November, 1786. Their award was, in substance, 
that New York should cede to Massachusets the right of pre- 
emption of the soil from the native Indians, and all other estate, 
except government, sovereignty, and jurisdiction, to a large 
body of land lying in the western part of our state, containing 
more than three millions of acres, and also to 230,400 acres lying, 
as before stated, upon the Susquehanna, and particularly described 
in the award as follows : ' To be located to the northward of 
and adjoining to the lands granted respectively to Daniel Coxe 
and Robert Lettice Hooper, and their respective associates, and 
between the rivers Owego, and Chenango.' 

" Confining our attention to the body of land embraced within 
these two streams, as more intimately connected with the general 
object of this series of articles, it is seen that, over it, the award 
secured to New York exclusive jurisdictional rights, incident to 
sovereignty, while it gave tc^ Massachusetts the right of negotia- 
tion with, and purchase from our Indian predecessors — the origi- 
nal lords of the soil. 

" It was also provided by the award that Massachusetts should 
have the right to hold treaties with the Indians on the lands, and 
with such armed force, as might be deemed necessary for the 
more effectual holding of any treaty or conference ; also that a 
copy of the proceedings of every treaty and of every grant from 
Massachusetts to any individual should be recorded in the office 
•of the Secretary of the State of New York, within six months 
after such treaty or grant. 

" The Indians having been always viewed and treated as an 
independent power, although living within our borders, and, after 
the revolutionary war, as helpless as tenants at sufferance, still 
no negotiation or agreement with them, as a nation, would have 
been deemed valid, unless approved by the President and Senate 
■of the United States — the treaty making power. Their approval 
was an indispensable pre-requisite, and, as a power, delegated by 
the states under the National Constitution, paramount to all 
clainis on the part of the states of Massachusetts or New York, 
under their colonial charters or otherwise. 

"The body of land lying between the Owego creek and the 
Chenango river, being the. 230,400 acres awarded to Massachus- 

" * They were John Lowell, James SulHvanJ Theophilus Parsons, Rufus King, James 
Duane, Robert R. Livingston, Robert Yates, Tohh"* flU.irins'. Melaricthon Smith, and 
Egbert Benson." 



TIOGA COUNTY. 19 



etts and since known and designated as the Boston Purchase or 
Ten Townships, was granted by that state to Samuel Brown, of 
Stockbridge, Berkshire county, Massachusetts, and his associates. 
Nearly all of the grantees resided at the time of the purchase in 
that county, and many of them in that town. The title was con- 
veyed by resolution of the legislature of that state, and approved 
by the Governor, November 7, 1787. Among other things it 
states the purchase price to have been 3,333 Spanish milled dol- 
lars, payable ip two years and subject to a deduction of the sum 
necessarily paid by the grantees to the natives in extinguishment 
of their claim. It recites also that Samuel Brown and three 
other grantees, viz. : Elijah Brown, Orringh Stoddard, and 
Joseph Raymond, on behalf of the company had purchased, on 
"the 22d day of June preceding, the right of the natives, and 
fully extinguished their claims. 

" Another fact is gleaned from this documentary evidence of 
historical interest to those now living upon the McMaster Half- 
Township, on which the village and a portion of the town of 
Owego is situated. The resolution recites that James McMaster 
was found in possession of a part of the tract, by the four gentle- 
men above named, at the time of their negotiation and treaty 
with the Indians, and that to quiet his claims Samuel Brown had 
entered into a contract to convey to him that half-township,, the 
bounds of which, as set forth in the legislative resolve, will be 
hereafter given. It is scarcely necessary to say that it was part 
and parcel of the body of lan'd to which the Massachusetts pur- 
chasers were then seeking to get the title. McMaster, by the 
help of Amos Draper, an enterprising trader and a man of great 
influence with the natives, had already ingratiated himself to such 
an extent with them that he was found at this time, as it appears, 
in actual possession, and unless conciliated by Brown and his 
friends, those two gentlemen, by their already great and increas- 
ing influence might at the least embarrass, if they did not inter- 
pose an effectual barrier to the consummation of any treaty with 
or cession of land from the Indians. Their claims to a portion 
of the land were certainly equitable on the score of priority, and 
feeling this they were not backward in using the superior advant- 
age which the'ir familiar footing with the natives gave them. 
The other party, it is true, could offer more gold, and the strong 
arm of government was on their side, but Indian fidelity was 
equal to the test, and the covenant-chain with McMaster and 
Draper was kept bright. 

" A fact substantiating this good faith on the part of the 
natives "and tallying well with the provision in favor of McMaster 
in the legislative resolve has been handed down by tradition, 
fiaving received it from two independent sources, the writer 
thinks it authentic and of sufficient interest to be repeated. The 
account is that four gentlemen, acting on behalf of the Massa- 
chusetts purchasers, iTiet the Indians in council at the mouth of 
the O-le-out, near Unadi!la, where, for reasons not satisfactorily 



20 TIOGA COUNTY. 



known, nothing final took place. They next met them at Nanti- 
coke, at which place negotiations were started with them from 
day to day, but were as often broken off, and sometimes abruptly 
concluded. This occurred for several days in succession, until the 
fact became known that the want of success was attributable to 
the opposition of McMaster and Draper, who had brought to 
bear their powerful influence with the natives and who, but for 
an ultimate compliance with their terms by Brown and others, 
would thus have effectually prevented an extinguishment at this 
time of the Indian title. Another council was called at a place 
a shoi"t distance above Binghamton, the Massachusetts purchas- 
ers hoping by the removal to escape the embarrassment experi- 
enced at Nanticoke, which was more immediately within the 
sphere of the influence of their rivals ; but the new council was 
opened with no better prospect of success, until a compromise 
of the conflicting interests .was effected by a contract entered 
into by Samuel Brown, for himself, and on behalf of his associ- 
ates, with McMaster, which provided that in case the authorities 
of Massachusetts should make a grant of the land in question to 
their company, there should be assured to James McMaster 
eighteen square miles of land, now known as the McMaster 
Half-Township, on which Owego stands, to be bounded as fol- 
lows : ' South by the north line of a patent made to Daniel R. Coxe 
and associates ; west on Owego river [now Owego creek] to 
extend up said river [creek] from said Une six miles and east- 
ward from said river [creek] three miles ; the east line to be 
straight, and to be so run as to make the above mentioned 
quantity of land, and to be as nearly parallel as may be to the 
general course of said river [creek].' 

" After the execution of this contract, negotiations were 
renewed under more favorable auspices. A treaty was con- 
cluded and a formal cession of the 230,400 acres was then made, 
and the Indian title extinguished ; James Dean superintending 
throughout the whole of the negotiation as the representative 
and agent of Massachusetts. 

"Evidence of the treaty having been duly adduced, that state 
formally granted to Brown and his associates that body of land, 
with the exception of the McMaster Half-Township, which was 
conveyed to Brown alone, in order that he might perform his 
contract with James McMaster more conveniently, and convey 
the title directly to him in pursuance of its terms. This was 
accordingly done, and the latter has been since known as the 
patentee of that half-township, although he received his title 
from Samuel Brown, to whom the letters patent were directly 
issued, and who was, in strictness, the sole original patentee of 
that, as he and his associates were of the whole body of land 
since known as the Boston Purchase, or Ten Townships." 

The first step toward the division of the lands held in common 
by the sixty proprietors, was the survey of three townships on 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



21 



the south part of the tract — the Chenango on the east, in which 
the lots were numbered as high as 222 ; the Nanticoke township 
next, in which were 181 lots; and the Owego township on the 
west. 

In the Chenango township were two men already in possession, 
who were not members of the company, and who did not partici- 
pate in the drawing. An amicable arrangement was made with 
them by which each had a good farm. These were Joshua Whit- 
ney, who had lot No. 37, containing about four hundred acres, at 
the southeast corner of the tract next to the Chenango river, and 
Thomas Reichardt, (commonly pronounced Record, now angli^ 
cised into Richards) who had lot No. 207, containing about two 
hundred acres, lying partly on the south side of the Susquehanna 
river. The west line of the Chenango township crossed the Sus- 
quehanna river, just west of Stoddard's Island. The Nanticoke ^ 
township extended west from that line to within about seven and 
a half miles of the west line of the Ten Townships, and ninteen of 
its lots are now included in the town of Owego. 

After the townships of Chenango and Nanticoke were surveyed 
into lots, the sixty associates partitioned the land among them- 
selves, and the legislature of the state of New York by an act 
passed 3d March, 1789, confirmed to the associates, in severalty, 
the land as they had divided it. The list as given in that act, is, 
perhaps, the only complete list extant of the original sixty asso- 
ciates. The follo\ving alphabetical list has a number prefixed to 
each name to indicate its place in the original list : 

Brown Stephen, 
Brown William, 
Chapman John, 



8. Ashley Moses, 

5. Bement Asa, 

6. Bement Asa, Jr., 
25. Bingham Anna, 

7. Bishop Elkanah, 
36. Bishop Nathanial, 

9. Blin Elisha, 

53. Bradley Asahel, 
52. Bradley Elisha, 

54. Bradley Josiah, 
45. Brown Beulah, 

2. Brown Elijah, 
35. Brown John, 

I. Brown Samuel, 
44. Brown Samuel, Jr. 



41- 
18. 
48. 
46. 
27. 
S8. 
26. 
10. 
47- 
37- 
14. 



Coleman Dudley, 

Cone Ashbel, 

Cook Ebenezer, 

Cook Philip, 

Crocker Ezekiel, 

Curtis Elnathan, 

Curtis Isaac, 

D wight Henry Williams, 
39. -Eagleston Azariah, 
49. Edwards Jonathan, 
43. Ingersol Jonathan, 
30. Jenks Isaac, 



22 



TIOGA COUNTY, 



20. Larnard Simon, 

12. Lusk Elizabeth, 
31. Mason Ebenezer, 
60. Morell John, 

42. Nash Stephen, 
38. New hall Allen, 
33. Parks War ham, 

50. Parsons Elihu, 

51. Parsons Eliphalet, 
24. Parsons Jacob, 

57. Partridge Oliver, Jr., 
22. Patterson Amos, 

13. Pepoon Silas, 

15. Pierson Benjamin, 

16. Pierson Jeremiah H., 



17. Pierson Joseph, 
32. Pierson Josiah G., 
21. Pierson Nathan, 
■23. Pixley David, 

4. Raymond Joseph, 
59. Rockwell Abner, 
56. Sergeant Erastus, 
ti. Seymour Ira, 

3. Stoddard Orringh, 
19. Strong Ashbel, 
40. Thompson Thaddeus, 
29. Walker Caleb, 
28. Walker William, 
34. Williams Ebenezer, 
55, Woodbridge Jonathan. 



The Owego township was surveyed in two parts, the East 
Half-Township, and the West Half-Township, which last accor- 
ding to an agreement made, was deeded by Samuel Brown, of 
Stockbridge, 17 Dec, 1787, to James McMaster, of Mohawk, 
The deed, for 11,520 acres, was witnessed! by^Walter Sabin, and 
proved by his testimony in Tioga county, 3 July, 1792, and 
recorded. Since this deed was given the West Half-Township 
has been properly known as " McMasters Half-Township ;" but 
through ignorance his name has also been quite commonly applied 
to the "East Half-Township of the Boston Purchase." 

James McMaster, of Mohawk District, Montgomery county, N. 
Y., by a deed of 4 Feb., 1788, conveyed to Amos Draper, of Choco- 
nut, lots 16 and 19 of 100 acres each, and lots 30, 32, 52 and 56, of 
143 acres each, of his Half-Township, and describes them as sur- 
veyed by Walter Sabin. 

The East Halt-Township was divided into sixty lots, and was 
partitioned among the proprietors by^deed, with map, 12 May,. 
1790, at the same time as the Grand Division. 

Six hundred lots were then laid out, in thirty courses of twenty 
lots each, for a great division, or, as it has always since been, 
called, "The Grand Division of the Boston Purchase." These 
lots, and the sixty in the East Half-Township, were distributed) 
among the proprietors, by a deed, accompanied by a map, dated 
12 May, 1790. The list of proprietors who signed this deed of 
partition differs very much from the list who shared in the first two- 
townships, from two causes: first,"some of the associates had sold 
their rights in the undivided lands ; and secondly, a considerable: 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



Z? 



number had authorized Samuel Brown to act for them in draw- 
ing the lots, which he did, and afterward conveyed their share 
by deed. As a result of these causes, only thirty-seven names 
are in this deed ; and of this number, at least twelve are not named 
in the former list. So that seventy-two names appear as pro- 
prietors, in the two lists. The parties to this deed were as fol- 
lows: 



I. 

2. 
3. 

4- 
5- 
6. 

7- 
8. 

9- 

ID. 
II. 
12. 

13- 
14. 

IS- 

16. 

17- 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 

23- 

24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31- 
32. 

33- 



Samuel Brown, Esq., Stockbridge, Mass. 

Charles Stone, yeoman, 

Asa Bement, Jr., blacksmith, 

Josiah Ball, cordwainer, 

Elkanah Bishop, husbandman, 

Timothy Jearoms [Jerome], carpenter, 

Moses Ashjey, Esq., 

Henry Williams Dwight, Esq., 

David Pixley, gentleman, 

Anna Bingham, widow, 

Isaac Curtis, miller, 

Timothy Edwards, Esq., 

Theodore Sedgwick, Esq., 

Elisha Blin, inn keeper. Great Barrington, Mass. 

Ezekiel Crocker, gentleman, Richmond, Mass. 

Benjamin Pierson, gentleman, 

Nathan Pierson, gentleman, 

Josiah G. Pierson, gentleman, 

Ebenezer Williams, gentleman, 

William Bartlett, blacksmith, 

Nathaniel Bishop, Esq., 

Joseph Pierson, joiner, New York City. 

Ashbel Strong, Esq., Pittsfield, Mass. 

Francis Plumer, gentleman, 

Israel Williams, gentleman, 

William Billings, Esq., 



Hatfield, 
Conway, 



Mass. 

Mass. 

Ashbel Cone, blacksmith, West Stockbridge, Mass. 
William Walker, Esq., Lenox, Mass. 

Caleb Walker, gentleman, " " 

Azariah Egleston, gentleman, " 

Theodore Thompson, physician, " 

Job Northrop, yeoman, " " 

Levi Tumbling,* yeoman, Lee, Mass. 



* In other records "Thomling" and " Tomling." 



24 TIOGA COUNTY. 



34. Samuel Arnold, yeoman, Canaan, N. Y. 

35. Ebenezer Mason, gentleman, Spencer, Mass. 

36. Allen Newhall, gentleman, New Haven, Conn. 

37. Jonathan Edwards, clerk, " " 

Of the six hundred lots in the Grand Division, one hundred and 
fifteen are in Newark Valley ; sixty-eight in Berkshire ; ninety- 
three in Richford ; two in the southeast corner of Dryden, 
Tompkins county ; eighteen in Cortland county ; and the remain- 
der in Broome county. 

North of the Grand Division the proprietors surveyed a tier 
of seventy lots, known as the " long lots," the title to which was 
never confirmed by the state, and the proprietors lost the land, 
although the state acknowledged their right by giving to the 
soldiers an equivalent for the deficiency, in the military tract ; 
and the Surveyor General, in his published map, calls it " North 
Tier Boston Ten-Townships." The first eight of these "long 
lots " are in Dryden, and the other sixty-two are in Cortland 
county. 

There was but one royal grant of lands to individuals direct 
(other than the Massachusetts charter) in the territory of the 
county, and that was for a tract of 29,812 acres, lying in the pres- 
ent southerly half of the town of Owego and a portion of 
Nichols. This tract was patented to Daniel, William, and 
Rebecca Coxe, and John Tabor Kemp and Grace (Coxe), his 
wife, January 15, 1775, and has since been known as Coxe's 
Manor, or Patent. It was a portion of 100,000 acres patented 
to them in consideration of the surrender of their rights in a 
^' province called Carolana, consisting of a territory on the coast 
of Georgia and the Carolinas, together with the islands of Veanis 
and Bahama, and all other islands off that coast, between the 31st 
and 36th degrees of north latitude, as granted by Charles I. 
October 30, 1629, to Sir Robert Heath, and from him devised to 
the present grantees through their father." To these grantors 
47,000 acres were granted in Oneida and 23,000 acres elsewhere 
(in Otsego or Delaware counties). The petition for this grant 
was filed October 31, 1774, and described the tract as being in 
the county "of Tryon, and as " beginning at a place called Owegg, 
on the Susquehanna river, and runs along the northern boundary 
of Pennsylvania." On January 4, 1775, a return of survey was 
made for the parties named in the patent, which described the 
tract as beginning "opposite the mouth of Owegy creek." 



TIOGA COUNTY. 25 



The portion of the present town of Owego south of the Sus- 
quehanna, .and the town of Nichols, was called the township of 
Hambden. The lands in the township, aside from Coxe's Manor, 
were sold as follows : to Robert Morris, several tracts in O wego ; 
Alexander Macomb, 6,930 acres in Owego and Vestal, February 
IS. i;;8S. vol. xliii., p. 123, Land Papers, New York; Nicholas 
Fish, 7,040 acres in Owego, and 6,400 acres in township seven of 
the tract purchased of the Oneidas and Tuscaroras, in Owego and 
Nichols, vol. xliii, pp. 84 and 85, Land Papers; William Butler, 
return of survey for 3,000 acres in Nichols, adjoining Coxe's 
Patent on the west, January 12, 1775, vol. xxxv., p. 14; John 
Reid, similar return for 3,000 acres adjoining Butler on the west, 
January 12, 1775, yol. xxxv., p. 15; Richard Robert Crowe, 
similar return January 20, 1775, for 2,000 lying between Reid's- 
tract and the Susquehanna, which bounds it on the west, voL 
xxxv., p. 23, Land Papers. 

On the loth of November, 1784, Rebecca, John D., and Tench 
Coxe filed a caveat in the land-office protesting against the grant- 
ing by the state of any certificates of location, warrents of sur- 
vey, or letters patent for lands west of the Delaware river,, 
bounded south by Pennsylvania, until the claim of said protest- 
ors, or their assigns, to a tract of 29,812 acres of land, on the 
east bank of the Susquehanna, was lawfully and fully recognized. 
The claims of the Coxe heirs were confirmed subsequently, and 
the tract, as surveyed in 1806-7, was found to contain 30,900 
acres. 

Gospel and literature tracts were also set off in Owego town- 
ship, comprising about three square miles, adjoining Coxe's 
Manor on the north. Colonel Nichols subsequently acquired a 
large tract of land in the towns of Owego and Nichols. 

In 1788, on March 22, the legislature erected a new town* in 
Montgomery county, the boundary line beginning at the inter- 
section of , the pre-emption line of Massachusetts with the Penn- 
sylvania State line, and running due north from the point of 
intersection along the pre-emption line to the distance of two 
miles north of Tioga river ; thence in a direct line at right angles 
to the pre-emption line east to the Owego river (West Owego), 
to intersect said river at a distance of four miles on a straight line 
from the; confluence thereof with the Susquehanna ; then down, 
the Owego and Susquehanna to the Pennsylvania line ; and 

* Gheijiung. 



26 TIOGA COUNTY. 



thence along said line to the place of beginning. This tract, 
which covers the present town of Barton and the greater por- 
tion of Tioga, in Tioga county, and the towns of Southport, 
Elmira, Ashland, Baldwin, and Chemung, and a portion of Big 
Plats, Horseheads, Erin and Van Etten, in Chemung county, had 
teen settled by a number of persons, who could not agree upon 
a proper division of their locations, and the act creating the town 
appointed John Cantine, James Clinton, and John Hathorn com- 
missioners to inquire into and settle the disputes which had arisen 
.among the settlers concerning their possessions, and to assign 
and allot lands to the claimants who were actually settled on the 
lands, or who. had made improvements, intending to settle. The 
allotments were to be not less than loo, nor more than i,ooo acres 
each, and also provided that the lands were to be settled within 
three months after the state acquired the Indian title. The 
lands were bought at one shilling and sixpence per acre. These 
commissioners proceeded under their authority to suryey and 
plot the town, and February 28, 1789, the legislature confirmed 
their report, and authorized the commissioner of the land-ofiBce 
to patent the lands to the parties named on the map submitted 
by the commissioners of the town, and extended the time of set- 
tlement to one year after the state had acquired the Indian title. 
Certificates of location were issued by the commissioners, which 
were assignable, and thus parties acquired large tracts, which 
were patented to them under One patent. 

On August 4, 1791, John W. Watkins, a lawyer in New York 
city, and Royal W. Flint, and certain associates, applied to the 
Commissioners of the Land-Office for the ungranted lands lying 
east of the Massachusetts pre-emption, west of the Owego creek, 
south of the Military Tract, and north of the town of Chemung, 
as then laid out, — estimated to contain 363,000 acres, — for which 
they agreed to pay the price of three shillings and fourpence per 
acre. (Vol. xi.. Land Papers, p. 141.) The proposition was 
accepted, and the tract surveyed, and a return made April 7, 
1794, and a patent issued June 25, 1794, to John W. Watkins 
who subsequently conveyed to his associates, as their interests 
indicated. The lands were described in the patent as follows : 

" Beginning at the northwest corner of the township of Che- 
mung, as originally surveyed and laid out, on the east bounds of 
the lands ceded by this State to the Commonwealth of Massa- 
chusetts, and running along the line run for the north bounds of 
said township of Chemung south 87° 40' east, 2,857 chains to 



TIOGA COUNTY. 27 



Owego creek, being the west bounds of a tract of 230,400 acres, 
also ceded by this State to the Commonwealth of Massachusetts; 
thence up along same bounds northerly to the township of 
Dryden, being one of the townships of the tract set apart for 
the troops of this state .lately serving in the army of the United 
States; thence along the south bounds of the townships of 
Dryden, Ulysses, and Hector, and the same continued west 2,786 
chains to the line run for the east bounds of the said first above- 
mentioned ceded lands, which line is commonly called the pre- 
emption line; then along the same a true south course 1,220 
chains to place of beginning." 

This tract includes the present towns of- Spencer and Candor. 



*CHAPTERIII. 

First Settlement — Character of the Settlers — Growth of Popula- 
tion — Organization — Original Boundaries — Curtailment of Terri- 
tory — Present Boundaries — Topography— G^iology — Streams — Soil 
— Agricultural Statistics — Agricultural Societies. 

IN the previous chapter we have stated the manner in which 
the original titles to the land within the present limits of the 
county were obtained. Upon the " Boston Purchase," where 
the village of Owego now is,|the first white settlement was made ; 
but as this fact is set forth in detail in connection with our history 
of that town, it is not necessary to repeat the story here. 

Several causes operated to bring settlers to the County of Tioga 
from several localities. The army of Gen. James Sullivan, which 
passed through the valley in the summer of 1779, was composed 
of officers and soldiers from New Jersey, Connecticut, Massachu- 
setts and New York. The officers of the expedition were 
astonished at the advance the Iroquois had made in agriculture. 
A letter of Gen. James Clinton states that the corn was "the 
finest he had ever seen." Another officer states that there were 
ears of corn that measured twenty-two inches in length. The 
broad valleys of the Susquehanna, Chenango and Chemung, with 
their rich fields of corn, and orchards of apple trees, must have 
presented to the soldiers an inviting and attractive appearance, 

*In this chapter, and in some others,"we quote, extensively from the writings of Hon. 
William F. Warner, of Waverly. We hereby acknowledge our obligation to him for all. 



28 TIOGA COUNTY. 



as contrasted with the sandy soil of New Jersey, and the rocks 
and harder soil of Connecticut and Massachusetts. Upon re- 
turning to their homes ,at the close of the war, in 1783, these 
soldiers carried their reports of the territory they had traversed 
to friends and neighbors in their several states. We have seen 
that Massachusetts claimed the territory which forms the County 
of Tioga, and, as early as 1787, made a grant which, not being 
disputed as was the case with grants of the territory of Wyom- 
ing, many settlers in the Wyoming valley abandoned their 
possessions, and came to this county to find new homes ;' and Tioga 
thus gained some of her very best citizens among the early 
settlers from that locality. These coming mainly from Massa- 
chusetts and Connecticut, brought with them the general 
characteristics of the people of those states. Among them were 
men and women of culture and refinement, who exerted a power- 
ful influence in restraining others who might have been inclined 
tOj^acts of lawlessness. In general, this body of pioneers was 
composed of entire families; and th^ good order maintained was 
greatly owing to the presence of the noble wives, mothers and 
sisters of the pioneers, and who, while sharing in the hardships 
and privations incident to a pioneer life, presented examples of 
piety, virtue and true womanly heroism. Scantily furnished 
with domestic utensils and implements of husbandry, a spirit of 
liberality and mutual assistance was fostered. Many had for 
years suffered the fatigues and hardships of service in the army, 
and came empty handed, but with stout hearts, to carve for 
themselves a home in the new settlement. The exigencies of a 
pioneer life are always severe, but frugal means lead to frugal 
habits ; common necessities unite a community in a common 
brotherhood. Doubtless there were many incidents in the lives 
of these early settlers of generosity and bravery, but where all 
were brave and generous so little notice was taken of such deeds 
that no record of them was thought to be necessary, nor is there 
record of a single act of violence. 

The record of these settlements, their growth and progress, is 
given in the histories of the several towns, further on in this 
work; the growth of the county as a whole may be seen by the 
following, showing the population for several periods since 1800, 
viz: 1800,6,862; 1810,7,899; 1820, 14,716; 1825, 19,951; 1830, 
27,690; 1835, 33-999; 1840, 20,527; 1845, 22,456; 1850, 24,880; 
1855, 26,962; i860, 28,748; 1865, 30,572; 1870, 33,178; 1875, 
32,915; 1880, 32,673. 



__^ TIOGA COUNTY. 29 

The county was legally organized under its present name* by 
an act of the legislature passed February 16, 1791. It was carved 
out of territory previously embraced within the limits of Mont- 
gomery county, which had been called before and during the 
revolutionary war, down to the year 1784, Tryon county, in honor 
of one of the late colonial governors, who, unfortunately, proved 
himself throughout the national struggle an uncompromising 
enemy to the American cause. By reason of this his name had 
become so unpalatable to the people of the state that it was no 
longer applied to the county ; and by legislative enactment in 
that year (1784) the name of Montgomery was substituted, in 
honor of the Irish soldier, General Montgomery, who fell during 
his gallent attack on Quebec at an early period of the war. 

At the date of its organization, Tioga county ernbraced not 
only its present limits, but also the counties of Chemung, Broome 
and Chenango. Its boundaries were Otsego county on the east ; 
the Military Tract and Herkimer county on the north ; Ontario 
on the west — out of which Steuben was erected in 1796; and the 
Pennsylvania line on the south. Its towns, commencing at its 
westerly limit, were Newtown, Chemung, Owego, none of whose 
territory was then where it now is, but all of it lay west of the 
Owego creek, and then embraced what are now Tioga, Candor, 
Spencer, Barton and Nichols, in Tioga county, and Caroline, 
Danby and Newfield, in Tompkins county ; next easterly to 
Owego creek was Union, which included within its limits what 
are now Owego, Newark, Berkshire and Richford, in Tioga 
county. Union, Vestal, Lisle, etc., in Broome county, artd the 
westerly portion of what is now Chenango county ; next easterly 
was Chenango; and next easterly and northerly was Jericho, 
which covered territory then lying in the easterly part of what is 
now Chenango county. Thus it is seen that the six old towns, 
Newtown, Chemung, Owego, Union, Chenango and Jericho, then 
covered territory which the fifty-two towns of Chemung, Tioga, 
Broome and Chenango counties, and three towns, Caroline, 

*The name of the county is derived from that of the river that once flowed through its 
western portion, now the county of Chemung. Morgan, is his "League of the Iroquois," 
gives the derivation and signification of the word as follows: "The various tribes of the 
Confederacy had a different pronunciation for the word. In the Oneida dialect it was 
Te-ah-o-ge; in the Mohawk, Te-yo-ge-ga; in the Cayuga, Da-a-o-ga; and ir( the Seneca, 
Da-ya-o-geh; but all meant 'at the forks.' In the text of the work quoted it is written 
Ta-ya-o-ga. On Guy Johnson's map of 1771 it is written Ti-a-o-ga. The eloquent Red 
Jacket pronounced it T&h-hiho-gah, discarding the suffix 'Point,' which has been , 
universally added when applied to the locality known now as Athens, Pa. He said the 
Indian word carried the full meaning, — 'the point of land at the confluence of the two 
streams,' or 'the meeting of the waters.' " 



30 TIOGA COUNTY. 



Danby and Newfield, in Tompkins county now cover, fifty-five 
in all. 

The first loss sustained by Tioga in the organization of other 
counties was in 1798, when the northeasterly corner of her 
ancient domain, and a strip from the westerly part of Herkimer, 
were taken to make up the then county of Chenango, which, in 
its turn was found large enough, in 1806, to admit of the erection 
■of Madison county out of its northern half. Next in the order 
•of time, 1806, was the organization of Broome county, taken from 
Tioga, and named in honor of the then Lieutenant Governor. It 
■embraced, originally, the old towns of Chenango, etc., and 
territory forming Owego, Newark, Berkshire and Richford. 
The next change was in 1822, when the territory now included 
within the towns of Owego, Newark, Berkshire and Richford 
was taken from Broome and re-annexed to Tioga, and the towns 
of Caroline, Danby and Newfield were taken from Tioga and 
added to Tompkins. By the same legislature Tioga county was 
•divided into two jury districts, Owego and Elmira becoming 
half-shire towns. This latter act proved to be but a preliminary 
step to the subsequent establishment of Chemung county, result- 
ing, in 1836, in a complete severance of the connection and 
mutuality of interests. 

This leaves the county of which we write as it is to-day, with 
an area of about 542 square miles, bounded north by Tompkins 
and' Cortland counties, east by Broome county, south by the 
Pennsylvania line, and west by Chemung county. It is divided 
into nine towns, as follows: Barton, Berkshire, Candor, Newark 
Valley, Nichols, Owego, Richford, Spencer and Tioga. 

The surface of the country is broken by the prolongation of 
the Alleghany mountains, which enter in a series of ridges 
northerly through the territory, and attain a nearly uniform 
elevation of 1,200 to 1,400 feet above tide. These rido-es are 
severed diagonally by the valley of the Susquehanna, and are 
separated by numerous lateral valleys, which extend in a north 
and south direction, and give a great variety of feature to the 
■surface. The width of these valleys varies from a few rods to a 
mile, and sometimes more. They are frequently defined by steep 
acclivities, which rise from 250 to 400 feet, the summits of which 
are broad and rolling, and afford excellent land for dairy purposes. 

The rocks of the county belong to the Chemung and Catskill 
groups. All the rocks cropping out on the surface north of the 
Susquehanna, and those underlying the south of it, may be 



TIOGA COUNTY. 3 1 



classed with the Chemung group, and those crossing the hills 
south of the river with the Catskill group. There are no impor- 
tant minerals; a deep drift consisting of sand, gravel and clay 
lies in the valleys and covers the adjoining hills. This deposit 
near East Waverly is eighty feet deep, and a wide beltol it seems 
to extend north in aii almost unbroken line from that place to 
Cayuga lake. 

The principal streams are Susquehanna river and Owego> 
Catatonk, Cayuta, Pipe, Wapasening and Apalachin creeks, 
with their branches. These streams have generally rapid 
currents, and furnish valuable water-power. Their valleys, in 
their upper courses, are generally narrow, but expand as they 
approach the Susquehanna into broad and beautiful level in- 
tervals. * 

The soil in the valleys is a deep, rich, gravelly loam, with an 
occasional intermixture of clay and sand. The land in- the Sus- 
quehanna valley is especially noted for its fertility. The uplands 
are gravelly and sandy, and produce an abundance of grass, 
which renders the land valuable for grazing and dairy purposes. 
Since the removal of the most valuable timber, th'e inhabitants 
are mainly occupied in agricultural pursuits. The dairies of the 
county are becoming noted for their excellence in the principal 
markets, and are rapidly increasing in their productiveness. The 
county's agricultural resources may be estimated from the fol- 
lowing figures, taken from the census report of 1880: 

The county then had 3,401 farms, representing 2435175 acres 
of improved land, and were valued at $10,949,806.00. Upon 
these farms were raised 8,397 bushels of barley; 129,131 bushels 
of buckwheat; 313,087 bushels of Indian corn.; 652,918 bushels 
of OElts; 9,236 bushels of rye; 83,367 bushels of wheat; 436,317 
bushels of potatoes; 2,200 pounds of hops, and orchard products 
to the value of $25,342.00. Its live stock enumerated 7,482 
horses; 77 mules; 534 working oxen; 17,794 milch cows, and 
11,620 other cattle; 21,914 sheep and 8,253 swine. From this 
stock was pj-oduced 89,780 pounds of wool; 310,133 gallons of 
milk; 2,150,885 pounds of butter, and 24,712 pounds of cheese. 

The Tioga County Agricultural Society was organized in 1819. 
The only account of it extant is in the American Journal, a 
newspaper published at Ithaca by Ebnezer Mack, and now 
known as the Ithaca Journal. That paper gives an account of a 
meeting of the society at the house of Andrew Purdy, in Spencer, 



32 TIOGA COUNTY. 



on Wednesday, November lo, 1819, together with the by-law 
which were signed by Thomas Maxwell, secretary. 

On March 28, 1837, the society was reincorporated by act ( 
the legislature. James Purapelly, Anson Camp, Ezra Canfieh 
Francis Armstrong, Stephen. Strong, Henry McCormick, Ii 
Clizbe, John Coryell, Erastus Goodrich, Asa Wolverton, Ii 
Woodford, Russell Gridley, Henry Miller, George Fishe 
Stephen Wells, Jr., Ezekiel Rich, David Williams, Horatio Co 
lins, Joseph T. Waldo, Abram Hotchkiss, Otis Lincoln, Nichoh 
Schoonover, Samuel Mills, Isaac Shepard and William Plat 
" and such persons as might thereafter be associated with them 
were made a body corporatfe by the name ot the Tioga Count 
Agricultural Society. The act was to continue in force twent 
years, and the society was empowered to hold and convey rei 
estate not exceeding in value $5,000.00. Thomas Farrington Wc 
chosen president of the society. The first fair was held in Oct( 
ber, 1841, on land owned by James Pumpelly, at the northwe; 
corner of Main and McMaster streets, in Owego. Annual fail 
were held for six successive years. The last one, in 1846, was 
failure, owing to some dissatisfaction because one exhibitor wh 
owned some very fine horses had received all the best premium: 

The society was re-organized July 21, 1855, at a meeting hel 
in the old village hall, in Owego, and articles of incorporatio 
were subsequently filed in the office of the Secretary of Stati 
Harvey Coryell, of Nichols, was chosen president, Williai 
Smyth, secretary, and Thomas I. Chatfield, treasurer. The fin 
fair of the re-organized society was held October 23 and 24. Tl 
live stock and farming machinery were exhibited on the lot ; 
the southeast corner of Main and William streets, and the fruit 
domestic articles, etc., in the village hall. The next year the fa 
was held in the same places, but in 1857, a piece of ground owne 
by George W. HoUenback, corner of Division and Front street 
in the eastern part of the village, was leased for five years, at 
yearly rental of $100.00. The ground was surrounded by a hi^ 
board fence, a race-track was constructed, and fairs were he 
there until 1864. In 1862, there was some dissatisfaction becau 
all premiums amounting to $3.00 and over were paid in silve 
plated ware. In 1864, the location of the grounds was change 
The society leased and fenced in thirteen acres of land on the J. 
Beers farm, just north of the village line, located on the nor 
side of the highway leading from tjie old Ithaca and Owe| 
turnpike to Leach's Mills. In 1865, horse racing was madt 



TlUCiA (JUUMTY. 33 



prominent feature of the fair. This, together with the the pay- 
ing of premiums to farmers iix silver-plated ware, increased the 
dissatisfaction to such an extent that the fairs of the two follow- 
ing years were failures. 

An attempt to rq-organize the society was made in 1871. A 
public meeting was held at the court-house on the i8th of Octo- 
ber. Thomas I. Chatfield was elected president of the society, 
William Smyth, corresponding secretary, George Worthington, 
recording secretary, and Stephen S. Truman, treasurer. Nothing 
further was done, and no attempt was made to hold a fair. 

Another and more successful attempt to re-organize the society 
was made August ip, 1872, when another meeting was held at 
the court-house. At a subsequent meeting, held on the 24th of 
the same month, the society was re-qrganized by the Election of 
Herbert Richardson, of Newark Valley, president, William 
Smyth, of Owego, secretary, and George Truman,, of Owego, 
treasurer. The first fair of the re-organized society was held on 
the Owego Driving Park, September 16, 17 and 18, 1873, and 
successful annual fairs have been held on the same grounds ever 
since. The following is a list of the presidents of the society 
since its organization: — Thomas Farrington, Owego, 1841-42; 
Charles F. Johnson, Tioga, 1843-46; Harvey Coryell, Nichols, 
1855; Louis P. Legg, Berkshire, 1856; Chester Randall, Rich- 
ford, 1857; W. R. Shoemaker, Nichols, 1858; William Ellis, 
Parton, 1859; John McQuigg, Spencer, i860; David Taylor, 
Tioga, 1861-62; George Woodford, Candor, 1863; Louis P. 
Legg, Berkshire, 1864; Samuel B. Smith, Nichols, 1865 ; John L. 
Taylor, Owego, 1866-68; Thomas 1. Chatfield, Owego, 1871 ; 
Herbert Richardson, Newark Valley, 1872-73 ; Frederick W. 
Richardson, Newark Valley, 1874-75; John. S. Giles, Owego> 
1876; William -H. Armstr^g, Newark Valley, 1877-80; George 
J. Nelson, Tioga, 188 1 ; Frederic C. Lowman, Nichols, 1882; 
John Smith, Jr., Owego, 1883 ; W. Hulse Shaw, Tioga, 1884-87. 

From 1855 to 1861, inclusive, William Smyth was secretary of 
the society. John L.Taylor was secretary in 1862 and 1863; 
Thomas L Chatfield, in 1864 and 1865, and William H. Corey, in 
1866, 1867 and 1868. Mr. Smyth was again- secretary in 1871 
and 1872, and his son, William A. Smyth, succeeded him, hold- 
ing the office from J873 to 1876, inclusive. Since the latter year, 
LeRoy W. Kingman has been secretary of the society. 

Thomas L Chatfield was treasurer from 1855 to 1861, inclusive. 
Dwight L Bloodgood was treasurer from 1862 to 1868, inclusive. 



34 TIOGA COUNTY. 



Stephen S. Truman held the office in 1872, and George Truman 
in 1873. Mr. Chatfield was again treasurer from 1873 to 1876, 
inclusive. A. Chase Thompson was treasurer from 1877 to 1880^ 
inclusive. His successor, James M. Hastings, is the present 
treasurer. 

The Northern Tioga Agricultural Society was not organized, 
as might be supposed, in opposition to the county society whose 
fairs are held at Owego, but rather to occupy territory which did 
not seem to be reached by the county organization. 

In the summer of 1880, the Newark Valley Farmer's Club 
decided to take the initiatory steps towards holding a local fair or 
farmer's exhibition ; and a. temporary organization was formed 
for that purpose, with the following officers: D. M. Sturtevant» 
president; D. H. Miller, James Borthwick, vice-presidents; 
Charles L. Noble, secretary ; Egbert Bement, treasurer ; F. W^ 
Richardson, general superintendent; L. S. Burch, marshal. 

The exhibition was held on the grounds now occupied by the 
society, at Newark Valley, September 15 and 16, 1880. No 
admission fee was charged and no premiums paid ; but so great 
was the enthusiasm shown and so large was the exhibit made, 
that it was at once apparent that ample material was at hand for 
a successful society. A few weeks later the Farmer's Club issued 
a call to the farmers and business men of Northern Tioga, and a 
meeting was held in Elwell Hall, Newark Valley, November 23,. 
1880, which resulted in the organizing of a society to be known 
as the Northern Tioga Agricultural Society, and a few days- 
later the articles of incorporation were filed in the clerk's office 
of Tioga county and in the office of the secretary of state, and 
the so ciety entered upon its legal existence. The officers for the 
first year were as follows: L. S. Burch, president; Theodore 
Mayor, C. F. Curtis, vice-presidents ; Charles L. Noble, secretary;. 
J. R. Hankins, treasurer ; J. R. Ford, E. F. Johnson, C. H. 
Randall, F. G. Bushnell,D. M. Sturtevant, W. T.Shaw, William 
Elwell, L. D. McCulbugh and F. W. Richardson, directors. The 
grounds now occupied by the society, taken from the farms of 
Ichabod Ford and Edwin P. Smith, were at once leased, and the 
following summer a half-mile track was graded, suitable build- 
ings were erected, and on the 4th, 5th and 6th of October, 1881, 
the first annual fair of the society was held. The result was all 
that could have been desired, both in point of attendance and 
exhibits, and from that time to thepresent, each annual exhibition 
has shown a marked improvement over its predecessors the 



TIOGA COUNTY. 35 



entries rising gradually from 1,068 in 1881, to 2,012 in 1887,. 
while the cash receipts show a corresponding increase. Constant 
improvements have been made both in the grounds and the 
premium list, until the Northern Tioga Agricultural Society 
fairly ranks as one of the best managed and most prosperous, 
organizations of its kind in Southern New York. 



*CHAPTER IV. 

Administration of the Law — Early Courts — Changes ^^nd Estab- 
lishment OF New Courts — County Buildings — Judiciary and Civil. 
List. 

AT the time of the organization of the county (1791), the- 
various courts of law, from those of a general jurisdiction 
to those of a specific and limited jurisdiction, had already 
been instituted and organized throughout the state, either by 
derivation from the common law, or by the constitution and the 
various enactments of the legislature. With a very few except- 
ions of courts since abolished, the courts of law of that time have 
continued until the present writing with powers and jurisdictions- 
of so kindred a nature that they are easily identified. There has- 
been very little change in the essential nature of those powers 
and jurisdictions, or even in the number and grades of the various 
courts since. There have been made, however, great changes in 
the executive scheme and machinery of these courts. These 
changes are simply those of the natural growth and develop- 
ment of the administrat on of law, equity and justice ; and they" 
may be easily traced through the history of the constitutional 
and statute laws of the state. 

The paramount court of the state was the court for the trial 
of impeacliments and for the correction of errors. It was pro- 
vided for by the first constitution of the state, 1777, and was 
established by an act of legislature in 1784. It was composed 
of the president of the state senate, senators, chancellor, and 
judges of the supreme court, or the major part of them. As a 
court ifor the trial of impeachments, it had power to impeach all 

*Prepared by S. Jay Ohart, of Owego. 



36 TIOGA COUNTY. 



public officers of the state " for mal and corrupt conduct in their 
respective offices." Two-third noajority of the members present 
was necessary in order to successfully impeach. This cour^ 
still continues, with some modifications. It is now composed of 
the president of the state senate, senators or the major part of 
them, and the judges of the court of appeals, or the major part 
of them. Since it was first established, in 1784, this court has 
been deprived of much of the jurisdiction orginally conferred 
upon it, by the adoption of new state constitutions and by the 
various amendments thereto, and by numerous enactments of 
the state legislature. 

As a court for the correction of errors, this was a species of 
appellate court of last resort, and had power to redress and. 
correct all errors happening in the court of chancery, the supreme 
court, the court of probates and the court of admiralty. This 
branch of the court continued until the adoption of the new 
state constitution, which went into effect January i, 1847. It 
was supplanted under provisions of the constitution of 1847, by 
the court of appeals, although it is a noteworthy feature that the 
new constitution of 1847 made no direct abolition of this court; 
but it was practically disposed of by that instrument by abolish- 
ing the offices of chancellor and justices of the supreme court, 
who in part made up the court for the trial of impeachments and 
for the correction of errors. 

The new state constitution of 1847 provided for the institution 
of the court of appeals, consisting of eight judges, and the court 
was subsequently organized under provisions of enactment of 
the legislature, and is still in existence. The judges thereof are 
elected by popular vote, and since the adoption of the judiciary 
article to the state constitution, November 2, 1869, the court has 
been composed of a chief justice and six associate justices and 
the tenure of office is for a term of fourteen years. Its sessions 
are held in the city of Albany. It is an appellate court of last 
resort in the state, having general jurisdiction in law, equity and 
justice. 

There was another court already organized at the time of the 
erection of the county, known as the court of exchequer. It 
was a court having jurisdiction of fines, forfeitures and amercia- 
ments. It was abolished by the repealing acts of 1828, in antici- 
pation of the revised statutes of the state which went into effect 
January i, 1830. 

The court of chancery was another court already in existence 



TIOGA COUNTY, 37 



and fully organized, to the jurisdiction of which the county of 
Tioga was subject upon its erection. This court had jurisdiction 
bf general equity jurisprudence. The executive officer of the 
court, originally under the provisions of the constitution of 1777, 
was a sole chancellor, appointed by the governor of the state 
with the advice and consent of the council of appointment. His 
tenure of office was during good behavior, or until he arrived at 
the age of sixty years. Subsequently, when the revised statutes 
went into effect, January i, 1830, provision was made for the 
appointment of vice-chancellors, one for each of the eight 
judicial circuits. The duties of the vice-chancellors were anal- 
agous to those of the circuit justices of the supreme court. 
The court of chancery continued until the first Monday of July, 
1847, when it was abolished under the provisions of the new 
state constitution, which went into effect January i, 1847. This 
constitution provided for a supreme court, with general juris- 
diction in law and equity ; and since its adoption the history of 
equity jurisprudence is identical with that of the supreme court. 
The supreme court of judicature was also already fully organ- 
ized, having general jurisdiction of civil matters. Originally it 
consisted of three members, a chief justice and twO associ- 
ates, who were appointed by the governor of the state with the 
advice and consent of the council of appointment. Their tenure 
of office was during good behavior, or until each should attain 
the age of sixty years. Afterward the number of associate 
judges was increased to thre'e, and subsequently to four. 
The terms of the court were held at the state capitol, and the 
justices of the court continued to be appointed until June 7, 1847, 
when, under the provisions of the new constitution, they became 
elective by popular vote, and they have since continued to be so 
chosen. An act of the State legislature of 1786, however, 
authorized the trial of issues in the supreme court to be held in 
the county where the causes arise, and established circuit courts 
to be held in the vacations of the court at least once a year in 
each county of the state, by the justices or some one of them. 
The act of 1791, creating Tioga county, however, provided that 
it should not be the duty of the justices of the supreme court to 
hold a circuit court once in every year in Tioga county, unless 
in their judgment they should deem it proper and necessary. 
An act of February 10, 1797, nevertheless, appointed the 
circuit of Tioga county to be held on the tenth day after the 
second Tuesday in May, yearly. The state was at this time 
4* 



38 TIOGA COUNTY. 



divided into foiir judicial districts, and the county of Tioga was 
included in the "western district," so-called. April 17, 1823. an 
act was passed dividing the state into eight circuit districts, 
corresponding with the eight senatorial districts in extent of 
territory. Under this arrangement Tioga county was in the 
sixth circuit district. 

February 22, 1788, the state legislature by enactment estab- 
lished courts of oyer and terminer, having general criminal 
jurisdiction, and directed that the justices of the supreme court,- 
or either of them, together with the judges and assistant judges 
of the courts of common pleas of each county of the state, or 
any three or more of them, should constitute the court. The 
terms of oyer and terminer were also authorized to be held in the 
respective counties at the times when the justices of the supreme 
court should be holding the circuit court in such county. 

The supreme court, the circuit court thereof, and the court of 
oyer and terminer having been thus established throughout the 
state prior to the erection of Tioga county, the county became 
subject to the jurisdictions 'thereof from the time of its organiza- 
tion. These courts have continued in existence until the present 
time. It will be interesting, nevertheless, to notice some changes 
which were made in the executive arrangement of these courts 
from time to time. 

The revised statutes of the state which went into effect January 
I, 1830, provided for the construction of the supreme court to 
consist of a chief justice and two associates, and divided the 
state into eight circuit court districts, also made provision for 
eight additional circuit court justices, one for each district. 
These circuit court districts were made to correspond to the 
eight senatorial districts. The county of Tioga was annexed to 
the sixth judicial district, and has remained in that district down 
to date. This scheme was continued, with some modifications 
until the adoption of the new state constitution, which went into 
effect January i, 1847. Out of this new constitution, the amend- 
ments thereto, and the subsequent acts of the state legislature, 
has grown our present elaborate arrangement of the supreme 
court, circuit courts thereof, and courts of oyer and terminer 
the systematic executive arrangement of which elicits the admi- 
ration of the world of jurisprudence. They consist of so-called 
" departments," of which there are five in the state. Terms of 
circuit courts and courts of oyer and terminer are held in the 
various counties by a sole circuit justice. Under the present 



TIOGA COUNTY. 39 



arrangement the office of justice of the supreme court is elective,, 
and the tenure thereof has been, since the adoption of the 
judiciary article to the state constitution, November 2, 1869, for 
a term of fourteen years. The county of Tioga, under the 
present judicial arrangement, is in the fourth department and in 
the sixth judicial district, which has five justices, two of theno. 
general term justices and three of them circuit justices. 

Courts of comnion pleas, having limited civil jurisdiction, and 
Courts of general sessions or general sessions of the peace, having 
limited criminal jurisdiction within the respective counties of the 
state, had also been provided for by the state constitution and by 
various acts of the state legislature before the erection of the 
county ; but they were especially provided for by |he act of 
February, 1791, creating the county. This act provided that 
there should be two terms of said courts held in the county each 
year. The first terms thereof were directed to be held on the 
fourth Tuesdays of June and January of every year, at the 
house of George Hornwell, in Chemung (now in Chemung 
county). These courts originally were composed of a first judge,, 
three associate judges and four assistant judges. Three of these 
were necessary to be en bane to constitute the court, one of which 
three was required to be either the first judge or one of the 
associate justices. In 181 8, the offices of assistant judges were 
abolished by an act of legislature, and the revised statutes of 1830 
provided for a first judge and four judges of the county courts 
of each county. These species of courts continued with some 
modifications until the adoption of the new state constitution of 
1847. That instrument provided for one county judge in each 
county, except the county of New York, who alone held the 
county court, which was thus made to supplant the court of 
common pleas. He also, together with two justices of the peace; 
called justices for sessions, holds the court of sessions, having 
limited criminal jurisdiction within the county which in turn, 
since January i, 1847, has supplanted the court of general sessions 
or general sessions of the peace. Under the original system the 
first judge, the three associate judges and the four assistant 
judges were appointed by the governor of the state with the 
advice and consent of the council of appointment. The tenure 
of office of the first judge was during good behavior, or until he 
attained the age of sixty years; and commissions of appointment 
to the judges of the county courts (other than the first judge), 
etc.. were reauired to be made^ by the constitution of 1777, once 



40 TIOGA COUNTY. 



at least in every three years. With this exception the duration 
of the term of said officers was during the pleasure of the council 
of appointment. In 1830, the revised statutes authorized the 
nomination and appointment of the judges (a first judge and four 
assistant judges) of county courts by the governor of the state, 
with the consent of the state senate, and their tenure of office 
was for a term of five years, subject to removal for cause ; and 
by the new state constitution of 1847, the office of sole county 
judge was made elective by popular vote and the tenure of office 
was for a term of four years. This term was by the adoption of 
the judiciary article to the state constitution November 2, 1869^ 
changed to six years' duration, which is the present tenure of the 
office. Justices for sessions, sitting with the county judge, con- 
stituting the court of sessions, are elected annually by popular 
vote and are required to be acting justices of the peace. 

Courts of probate, or what are now known as surrogate's courts, 
had also already been instituted throughout the various counties 
of the state, prior to 1791, by common law jurisdiction and by an 
act of legislature passed February 20, 1787, and by legislative 
acts subsequent thereto. These courts had original general juris- 
diction of the probate of wills, administration of decedents' 
estates, and of all controversies relating thereto. The original 
statute of 1787, provided for the appointment of a sole surrogate 
in and for each county by the governor of the state and the 
council of appointment, to serve during the pleasure- of said 
council. The revised statutes of -1830 authorized the nomination 
and appointment of surrogates by the governor of the state, 
with the consent of the state senate, and fixed the tenure of their 
office at a term of four years. Surrogates in and for each respec- 
tive county continued to be appointed, with some subsequent 
modifications and conditions, until the new state constitution of 
1847; and by that instrument the office of surrogate was con- 
solidated with that of county judge, and since that time the office 
of surrogate in Tioga county is identical with that of county 
judge, as to manner of election and as to tenure of office. It is 
needless to add that this species of court is still extant in Tioga 
county, having the same general jurisdiction. 

Courts of justice's of the peace, having specific and limited 
jurisdiction of petty civil controversies, and courts of general 
sessions of the peace, held by justices of the peace, having juris- 
diction of petty crimes and misdemeanors, were also inaugurated 
throughout the various counties of the state at the time of the 



TIOGA COUNTY. 41 



organization of the, county ; and they are still continued, having- 
nearly the same general jurisdiction as they had when the 
county was first created. Courts held by justices of the peace, 
exercising jurisdiction of petty crimes and misdemeanors, are 
now denominated as courts of special sessions. Justices of the 
peace were originally appointed by the governor of the state and 
the council of appointment under provision of the constitution of 
1777; and their tenure of office was during the pleasure of the 
council of appointment, except that it was required that commis- 
sions of appointment should be issued at least once in three 
years. Justices of the peace continued to be appointed until the 
amendment to the state constitution, ratified in November, 1826, 
and since that time they have been chosen by the electors within 
the various towns of the state. The tenure of office is now for 
a term of four years. 

The act of the state legislature of 1791, creating the county of 
Tioga, provided that, until other provisions be made in the 
premises, the courts of said county should be held at the house 
of George Hornwell, in Chemung, and directed that a court- 
house and jail in the county should be erected at such place as 
the judges and justices and supervisors, or the major part of 
them, should direct and appoint. July 12, 1791, the justices and 
supervisors of the county met and selected a site for the new 
court-house and jail. The site selected was east of the Nanti- 
coke creek, now in the village of Chenango, a small settlement 
on the west side of the Chenango river in the town of Union. A 
petition was made to the state legislature by the judges, justices 
and supervisors of the county, for authority to raise a sum of 
money sufficient to build such buildings. In pursuance thereof, 
an act was passed by the legislature on February 18, I792> 
authorizing the levying and collection of three hundred pounds, 
with an additional sum of nine pence on the pound for collecting 
the same, for building a court-house and jail, and authorizing the 
appointment of three commissioners by . the supervisors and 
judges of the court of common pleas on the first Tuesday in 
May, 1792, to superintend the building of the new court-house 
^nd jail upon the site selected July 12, 1791. The same act 
authorized the courts of said county to be held at the house of 
Nehemiah Spalding, situate near Nanticoke creek aforesaid, 
after the end of the term of said court to be held on the fourth 
Tuesday of June, 1792, until the new court-house should be built 
and fit for the reception of the court. In conformity with the 



42 TIOGA COUNTY. 



provisions of this act the court-house and jail were erected in 

■1793- 

There sprung up at once intense local jealousies and strifes 

among the inhabitants of the county, as to the permanent location 
-of the new county buildings. There appears to have been a 
muraerous sprinkling of inhabitants in the vicinity of what are 
now the cities of Elmira and Binghamton, and the chief struggle 
•as to the location of the county seat of the new county was 
between those two localities. And thus early in our history was 
■engendered a strife for local dorainancy, which has continued 
ainabating until the present day. The Chemung inhabitants 
secured a temporary domiiiancy by the act of February, 1791 ; 
and the Nanticoke inhabitants wrested it from them by the act 
of February, 1792. But their victory was not an exclusive one, 
for the inhabitants of Chemung immediately set to work and 
constructed a building for a jail, at Newtown Point, so-called, 
in the town of Chemung, and January 14, 1793, secured the 
passage of an act of legislature recognizing the same as the jail 
of the county, "until further legislative provisions in the prem- 
ises ;" and also authorizing the holding of the courts of common 
pleas and general sessions of the place, in said county from and 
after April i, 1793, on the first Tuesday in May, October and 
February, of every year, alternately at the house of Joshua 
Whitney, at Chenango, in the town of Union, and at the said new- 
jail building at Newtown Point, in the town of Chemung, and 
directed the adjournment of said courts at the end of the January 
term of 1793, to the first Tuesday of May, 1793, to lae held in 
this new jail building at Newtown Point. This dual arrange- 
ment threw some confusion into other official departments of the 
county, and there appears to have been a struggle to have the 
dual arrangement carried throughout all of those official depart- 
ments, and doubts at once arose as to the power and authority to 
do this, particularly among the new loan officers. Once more 
the legislature was appealed to, and March 25, 1794, an. act with 
a pj-eamble reciting this state of affairs was passed, authorizing , 
and requiring the new loan officers to hold the new loan office in 
the towns of Union and Newtown, alternately, at or near the 
places of holding said courts, and directing that the next meeting 
of the said new loan .officers be held in the town of Union, afore- 
said. 

March 17, 1795, the good people of the Nanticoke vicinity 
secured the passage of an act directing that the sheriff of Tioga 



TIOGA COUNTY. 43 



county, from and after May i, 1795, compute and receive mileage 
fees from Nanticoke bridge, in the town of Union, and from no 
other place. 

The location of Chenango Village, in which the new court- 
house and jail had been erected, in 1793, was changed to Che- 
nango Point (now city of Binghamton) in 1799, but the citizens 
of that vicinity were still persistent to maintain local supremacy, 
and the contention seems to have continued until 1801. March 
31, 1801, the state legislature enacted that the judges and assistant 
justices in the County of Tioga, at the next term of their court, 
commencing on the first Tuesday in May, 1801, divide the county 
into two jury districts, " as nearly equal as may be convenient ;" 
and authorized the holding of the courts of common pleas and 
general sessions of the peace at the court-house '*about to be 
erected at Chenango Point, m. the town of Chenango, instead of 
the house of Joshua Whitney, in the town of Union, and at the 
court-house at Newtown alternately." 

March 5, 1794, Onondaga county was formed, March 15, 1798, 
Chenango county was formed and March 28, 1806, Broome 
county was formed, all taken from Tioga county and embracing 
all of the territory east of Owego creek. The act of March 28, 
1806, directed. the holding of the courts for Broome county in 
the court-house then erected in Chenango, and for, the county of 
Tioga at the court-house in the town of Newtown, and the pro- 
visions for two jury districts in the county of Tioga was abolished. 

Meantime a large settlement had grown up at Spencer. The 
court-house at Newtown was a rude affair, constructed of logs 
and covered with clap-boards, situate approximately, upon the 
present corner of Church and Sullivan streets, in the city of 
Elmira. That new county buildings would soon have to be con- 
structed in Tioga county was manifest. What is now the town 
of Owego was known as the town of Tioga, and had been set off 
into the new county of Broome in 1806. Directly upon the 
formation of this new county of Broome, Spencer began to con- 
test with the Newtown community for the location of the antici- 
pated new county buildings, and for local supreraacj'. The name 
of the town Newtown was changed to Elmira, by act of legisla- 
ture April 6, 1808, so it will be proper hereafter to speak of the 
locality as Elmira. Spencer was then sometimes known as 
'•' Pumpkin Hook ;" but nothing daunted, she wrested from Elmira 
the sway of local dominancy and secured the location of the new 
county, buildings there. February 17, 1810, an act was passed by 



44 TIOGA COUNTY. 



the legislature appointing Nathaniel Locke, Anson Carey and 
Samuel Campbell, "commissioners to locate a new court-house 
site." In the winter of 1811, these commissioners removed the 
county seat from Elmira to Spencer. By the same act, Joshua 
Ferris, Isaac Swartout and Samuel Westbrook were appointed 
to superintend the erection of the new building. September 28, 
1 8 10, two acres of land, situate in Spencer, were purchased of 
Andrew Purdy out of his farm, for the price of $20.00. The new 
building was situate upon the corner where Messrs. Emmons 
Bros' store" now^ is. This new court-house was built by Mr. 
Purdy, on contract, under the personal superintendence of 
Samuel Westbrook, and cost $5,595.60. It was a wooden build- 
ing, two stories high. On the ground floor were four appart- 
ments, one of which was used for a prison for criminals, another 
for the imprisonment of debtors, the other two for the jailers 
apartments. The second story contained the court-room proper 
and two jury-rooms. 

The strife was still rife between the Elmira and Spencer local- 
ities for dominancy, and the Elmira community still persisted in 
maintaining a species of independence. Accordingly, June 8, 
1812, Tioga county was again divided into jury districts, the 
eastern and the western ; and the courts of the county were held 
at Elmira and Spencer alternately. In January, 182 1, the court- 
house in Spencer was destroyed by fire. It was occupied at the 
time by the jailor, John J. French, a revolutionary soldier. He 
was the father of three daughters, who occupied the jury-rooms 
in the second story for their appartments. The fire which des- 
troyed the building broke out at mid-night, in these rooms. They 
claimed that it originated in the chimney, but many were un- 
charitable enough to assert their belief that the jailor's girls set 
the building on fire at the instigation of certain persons who 
were desirous of having the county seat removed to Elmira. 

The legislature, March 31, 1821, passed an act directing the 
next courts to be held where the sheriff of the county should 
designate, and the first court of common pleas so held was to 
designate where the next term should be held, and so on from 
term to term, till a new court-house should be erected. It was 
also made lawful to confine the prisoners in the Tompkins county 
jail, or in the jail at Elmira. 

A temporary court-house, one story high, was erected about 
twenty or thirty rods west of the old one. It adjoined a school- 
house, the latter being used during sessions of the court, a door 



TIOGA COUNTY. 45 



having been cut between the buildings in order to give access 
from one to the other. The buildings were used for court 
purposes until the spring of 1822. The temporary court-house 
was removed fifteen or twenty rods west of its original location, 
to where it now stands, between George Rosecrance's wagon 
shop and Seth O. Sabin's blacksmith shop, where it is used to 
store lumber in. 

In the meantime, the legislature, by act of April 12, 1813, 
revised the division of the state into towns, and exchanged the 
names of the towns of Owego and Tioga one for the other, as 
they are now denominated. And by an act passed March 22, 
1.822, the towns of Berkshire, and Owego, then including the 
new towns of Richford and Newark Valley also in the county of 
Broome, were annexed to the county of Tioga ; th^ county as 
reconstructed was divided into two jury districts ; and the act 
authorized the construction of new court-houses and jails in both 
Elmira and Owego. The two jury districts were designated the 
eastern and western. The eastern district comprised the towns 
of Tioga, Spencer, Danby, Caroline, Candor, Berkshire and 
Owego. The western district comprised the towns of Cayuta; 
Catharine, Chenango and Elmira. This act made it the duty of 
the board of supervisors at their annual meeting in October, 
1822, to levy a tax of $4,000.00 and, in 1823, an additional tax of 
$2,000.00, to pay for the construction of new buildings, on con- 
dition that $2,000.00 additional be raised by voluntary subscript- 
ions and paid in, and that lots for building sites should be con- 
veyed free of expense to the county. Three commissioners were 
appointed to take charge of the construction of each of the 
court-houses. John R. Drake, Gen. Anson Camp and Charles 
Pumpelly were nominated the commissioners to build the one in 
Owego. 

This act dividing the county into two jury districts also direc- 
ted the courts for the eastern district to be held at the hotel of 
Erastus S. Marsh, which was situate upon the site of the present 
Ahrwa-ga House in Owego, until the new court-house should be 
erected. ' And the courts for the western jury district continued 
to be held at Elmira, until March 29, 1836, when it was made into 
an independent county and denominated Chemung county, by an 
act of the legislature. 

February 28, 1799, the trustees of the Owego settlement ac- 
quired a considerable tract of land of James McMaster for a 
village park. In pursuance of the act of March 22, 1822, requir- 



46 TIOGA COUNTY. 



ing that a lot for a building site for the new court-house and jail 
in Owego should be conveyed free of expense to the county, a 
further legislative act was passed April 17, 1822, authorizing the 
trustees of the village of Owego with the consent of the inhabi- 
tants of said village, to convey to the supervisors such parts of 
the lands originally conveyed by James McMaster and Rachel, 
his wife, to the trustees of the inhabitants of the Owego settle- 
ment as may be necessary to be occupied for the use of a court- 
house and jail to be erected in said village. Thereupon a meet- 
ing of the free holders and inhabitants of the village of Owego 
was held at Marsh's tavern, on the 12th day of October, and 
assent and authority given to the trustees of the public grounds 
in said village to deed to the supervisors of the county so much 
of the public grounds as they might "deem necessary to erect a 
court-house, and other necessary buildings upon as appendages 
to the court-house." The trustees of Owego settlement accord- 
ingly, on October 29, 1822, deeded to the supervisors of the 
county the ground on the corner of Main and Court streets, in 
Owego village, upon which are now situate the new sherifi's 
residence and jail, the old county clerk's office and the old jail 
building. The court-house was built by contract, Ralph Manning 
of Berkshire, constructing the cellar and Seth Bacon, of Candor, 
the slriicture. The work was completed in 1823. It fronted on 
Court street and had a hall running through its centre from east 
to west. On the north side of the hall were a sheriff's living 
room and an office. On the south side were two jail rooms and 
a kitchen. The stairs leading to the court-room proper, occupy- 
ing the whole upper floor, were at the east end of the building- 
At a special meeting of the board of supervisors, held March 
3, 185 1, it was decided to build a new sheriff's residence and jail. 
It was first proposed to build the new jail between the court- 
house and the old county clerk's office. The ground was then 
occupied by a fire engine house, which had been built there by 
the village in 1843, by permission of the supervisors. The plan 
was afterward changed, and it was decided to build east of the 
court-house. The village trustees were requested to remove the 
engine house, as the rear part occupied a portion of the ground 
needed for the jail. But they did not feel authorized to remove 
it or relinquish the right of the village to the ground without 
first obtaining an expression of the inhabitants. The matter was 
decided at a public meeting of the citizens of the village held on 
the 20th of March, 185 1, when the trustees were directed to 



TIOGA COUNTY. 47 

remove the building before the first of April. On the day follow- 
ing that of the citizens' meeting, the supervisors directed the 
county treasurer to loan $6,000.00 to be expended in building the 
nevir sheriff's residence and jail. The jail was to be built of brick, 
lined with two-inch oak planks, with one-half inch iron spiked to 
the bond timbers and confined at the top and bottom by bars of 
iron two and one-half by three and one-half inches, placed 
horizontally, bolted to the bond timbers. It was built by J. 
Conklin, of Elmira. The sheriff's residence still stands, being the 
small brick structure on Main street east of the new sheriff's 
residence and jail, and occupied by the telephone company and 
others for offices. The old jail portion of the building was sold 
in 1884 to A. H. Keeler for $125.00 and torn down by him. 

In the summer of 1852 the court-house was repaired and re- 
modeld by John Gorman and Chauncey Hungerford, at an expense 
of $1,500.00. The judges bench and bar, which had been at the 
west end of the court-room, were removed to the east end, and 
additional stairs were built at the west end of the buildmg. A 
•bupola, in which was afterwards, in 1855, placed, a bell, was 
built upon the roof at the west end of the court-house, and 
various other changes were made. This court-house was sold to 
A. H. Keeler and torn down by him, in 1877, after the brick 
court-house in the park had been completed. ' 

September 2, 1868, at the Tioga county oyer and terminer, the 
grand jury of the county indicted the court-house and jail of the 
county and " presented the Tioga county court-house as unsuitable 
and inconvenient for the transaction of the legal business of the 
county, and presented the Tioga county jail as insecure and in- 
convenient for the confinement of persons charged with crime ;" 
and " recommended that immediate action be taken by the proper 
authorities for the building of a new court-houseand jail as soon 
as practical." 

November 23, 1869, the board of supervisors passed a resolu- 
tion to appoint a committee of three to procure plans, specifica- 
tions and estimates for a new court-house, and to report at the 
next annual meeting of the board ; and Messrs. John A. Nichols, 
of Spencer, John H. Deming, of Richford, and Frederick O. 
Cable, of Owego, were appointed such, committee, and made 
their report to the board November 17, 1870. On December i, 
1870, a resolution was passed by the board of supervisors to pro- 
ceed with as little delay as practical to erect a new court-house 
and a new jail for the county, and a committee of three, consist- 



48 TIOGA COUNTY. 



ing of Messrs. John. H. Deming, of Richford, John J. Taylor 
and Daniel M. Pitcher, of Ow^ego, was appointed to obtain plans 
and estimates of builders or architects of the expense thereof. 
This committee reported at a special meeting of the board of 
supervisors held on December 28, 1870, and recommended the 
public square in the village of Owego for a site. On the 9th of 
January, 1871, a meeting of the citizens of Owego Village was 
held and consent given to convey the public square to the 
supervisors for a court-house site, which site was adopted by the 
supervisors at a special meeting held January 12, 1871, but no 
other building except the court-house was to be erected thereon. 
The state legislature passed an act authorizing the board of 
trustees of Owego village to convey the public park to the 
supervisors for a court-house site, January 20, 1871, which was 
done by deed bearing date Februarj' 14, 1871. The present 
elaborate court-house was thereupon constructed, in 1871-73, in 
pursuance of the plans and specifications of Miles F. Howes, a 
resident architect of Owego village, by Messrs. A. H. Keeler 
and Jonathan S. Houk, contractors at the contract price of 
$55,700.00. The plans were altered, however, subsequently, to 
the letting of the contract and important changes made. The 
structure was completed in 1873, and on November 26, 1873, 
accepted by the board of supervisors at a total cost of construct- 
ing and fitting of $65,318.90. 

The building of a new jail was for the time being abandoned, 
but the board of supervisors in annual session, November 23, 
1 88 1 , resolved to build a new jail, either on the bank of the river or 
on the site of the jail above referred to ; and on December 6, the 
site on the corner of Main and Court streets, upon which the old 
court-house of 1823 had been built, was selected. At a special 
meeting of the board, held April 17, 1882, the plans for a new 
jail and sheriff's residence were finally adopted, and the contract 
for constructing the same was awarded to John F. Corchran, ot 
Owego, and the contract for the iron work was awarded to the 
Owego Iron Works, and the finishing and the plumbing to E. H. 
Cook & Co., of Elmira, and May 18, 1882, the board passed an 
act authorizing the borrowing of $20,000.00 on the bonds of the 
county of Tioga for the purpose of building a new sheriff's resi- 
dence and jail. The new structure was erected in 1882-83, i^^ 
pursuance of the foregoing plans and specifications. The 
sheriff's residence is built of brick and joined to it is the jail 
proper, built of solid stone masonery. The completed structure 



TIOGA COUNTY. ' 49 



was accepted at a special meeting of the board of supervisors, 
held March 30, 1883, at a total cost of erecting, fitting with steam- 
heating, water and gas fixtures, grading grounds, etc., of $22,- 
739- 13. 

An act of the state legislature, passed April 3, 1798, provided 
for the recording of deeds and conveyances made and executed 
after the first day of February, 1799, in Tioga county, among 
others, in the clerk's office of the county, in books to be pro- 
vided by the clerk of the county for that purpose. The county 
clerk's office was kept in Newtown from the time of the erection 
of the county, in 1791, until 1804. There was no specific county 
building used for a clerk's office at this era.' The office was 
usually kept at the residence of the incumbent. March 20, 1804, 
t!he legislature, reciting a preamble that " sundry inhabitants of 
the county of Tioga had by their petition represented to the 
legislature that many inconveniences arise," enacted that from 
and after July i, 1804, "the office of clerk of Tioga county 
should be kept in a central situation in said county, not more 
than three miles from the village of Owego, on the north side of 
the river Susquehanna." The clerk of the county at that time 
was Matthew Carpenter, of Newtown. Accordingly, in pur- 
suance of the provisions of the enactment, Mr. Carpenter, in July, 
1804, opened an office in Owego (then Tioga) and placed the same 
in charge of Samuel Avery, whom he appointed deputy county 
clerk, July 4, 1804. The exact place where Mr. Avery kept his 
office it is now impossible to determine, after an exhaustive effort 
we have been unable to identify it for surety. It is conjectured 
that he probably had desk room in the law office of his brother, 
John H. Avery, who was a lawyer, and had his office in a build- 
ing on the bank of the Susquehanna river, on Front street, near 
the present residence of Dr. C. L. Stiles. Subsequently, Samuel 
Avery removed from Owego to Nanticoke, and thereupon, 
August 3, 1805, Mr. Carpenter appointed James Pumpelly, of 
Tioga (now Owego), as deputy county clerk of the county. Mr. 
Pumpelly moved the office to his land office, on Front street, 
where the building stood until a few years ago when it was 
moved back from the street, where it is still standing. Dr. William 
Jones, who was a cousin of Mrs. James Pumpelly, was also ap- 
pointed deputy county clerk of the county, to act in the absence 
of James Pumpelly, January 11, 1806*. The clerk's office re- 

*The official appointments of Samuel Avery, James Pumpelly, and William- Jones, as 
deputy county clerks of' Tioga county, by Matthew Carpenter, are to be found recorded in 



50 TIOGA COUNTY. 



mained in the old Pumpelly land office building until the town of 
Owego (then Tioga) was set off into Broome county, March 28, 
1806. TJpon the foot of this, the office of the clerk of the county 
was removed back to Newtown, in pursuance of an act of the 
legislature of April 7, 1806, requiring that the "clerk of Jioga 
county should keep his office in the Village of Newtown, any law 
to the contrary notwithstanding," where it remained until re- 
moved to Spencer, in pursuance of an act of the legislature 
passed March 12, 1813, which required that the clerk's office of 
the county should be kept " within two miles of the new court- 
house in the town of Spencer." 

The first distinctive county clerk's office buildin£ was built in 
Spencer, in 18 1 8. It was constructed of brick, at a cost of 
$1,139.00 and stood a short distance south of the court-house. The 
builder was Andrew Purdy, of whom the land upon which it 
stood had been purchased, and the commissioners appointed to 
superintend its construction were Abel Hart, of Candor, and 
Judge Henry Miller and Joshua Ferris, of Spencer. After the 
building was completed the supervisors refused to pay Mr. Purdy 
the entire amount of his claim, which subsequent proceedings 
showed to be a fair and just one. An application was made to 
the legislature, which passed an act April 12, 1822, appointing 
Richard Townley, Richard Smith and Luther Gere commission- 
ers to audit Mr. Purdy's claims, which were subsequently allowed 
by them in full. After the destruction of the court-house in 
Spencer, in January, 1821, an act was passed by the legislature^ 
April 15, 1823, repealing the act requiring the Tioga county 
clerk's office to be kept in Spencer. The same act appointed 
Parlee E. Howe, of the County of Onondaga, Henry Towar, of 
Ontario county, and Charles Kellogg, of Cayuga county, " a 
committee to determine a proper site for a county clerk's office 
in Tioga county, said site to be within one mile of one of the 
court-houses in the county," and the clerk was required to re- 
move his office to the place so designated within thirty days. 
The office was removed to Owego from Spencer in July, 1823, in 
conformity to the decision of these commissioners. The building 
in which it was kept was a small one-story structure on the bank 
of the Susquehanna river, on the south side of Front street, about 
twenty feet east of the present residence of Mr. William A. King. 
The basement of the building was occupied by the late Stephen 

the Tioga county clerk's office, in Deed Book No. 6, at pages 25 and 328, and Deed Book 
No. 7, page 72, respectively. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 5 1 



B. Leonard, deceased, as a printing office, where he publisheid 
the Owego Gazette. The clerk of Tioga county at this time was 
Thomas Maxwell, who resided in Elmira. Upon the removal of 
the office to Owego, it was placed in charge of Major Horatio 
Ross, whom Maxwell appointed deputy county clerk. 

April 10, 1824, the legislature of the state passed an act author- 
izing the supervisors to dispose of the old clerk's office in Spencer, 
built in 1818, and April 21, 1825, the legislature passed another 
act which appointed Joseph Berry, Elizur Talcott and John 
Ripley, all of Owego, commissioners " to cause to be erected a 
suitable and sufficient fire-proof building for a clerk's office in the 
village of Owego," and authorized them to receive the monies 
realized from the sale of the clerk's office in Spencer,j)ursuant to 
the act of April 10, 1824. It also directed the supervisors at 
their next annual meeting to cause a tax to be levied not exceed- 
ing $1,000.00 nor less than $800.00 including the amount received 
from the sale of the Spencer clerk's office, to be expended in 
building the new clerk's office. The Spencer clerk's office was 
sold to Andrew Purdy, April 53, 1825, for $210.00, and the board 
of supervisors at their annual meeting in November, 1825, 
directed that it be applied to the use of the commissioners for 
building a fire-proof clerk's office at Owego, and that an additional 
sum of $600.00 be levied and raised by tax on the towns of the 
eastern jury district for the purpose of erecting a fire-proof 
clerk's office in the village of Owego, making in all $810.00. 

The office was built by Abner Beers, near the south-west cor- 
ner of the court-house lot, on Court street, in 1825, and cost 
$792.00. A committee of three, Messrs. Samuel Barager, of Can- 
dor, William H. Moore, of Berkshire, and William A. Ely, of 
Owego, appointed to settle the accounts of the commissioners, 
reported to the board of supervisors that the new clerk's office 
was completed and that there remained unexpended the sum of 
$18.00, at the annual meeting of the board in November, 1826. 
The new building was one story high, with brick floors, and 18x28 
feet insize. Its height was twelve feet. It contained two rooms 
with four windows and the shutters were of wood, cased with 
sheet iron. It was as near fire-proof as could be made. 

This clerk's office, as the county grew in population and its 
business increased, became too small for the purposes intended, 
and, in 1854, it was deemed necessary to build a new one. In the 
fall of that year the supervisors resblved to build a new one at an 
expense of $2,000.06 and appointed Harvey Coryell, of Nichols, 



52 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



Samuel Mills, of Barton, and Josiah Rich, of Candor, to procure 
plans, etc. In April, 1855, the old clerk's office was torn down, and 
during the same year the brick one now occupied by the Owego 
Free Library, on Court street, was erected on its site. The 
mason work was done under the supervision of Thomas Ireland, 
and the carpenter work by Almerin S. Waring. The cost was 
$2,200.00. Mr. Waring made a poor job of it, in order to make 
his contract as profitable as possible to himself, and was conse- 
quently obliged to make several alterations to the interior before 
the supervisors would accept and pay for it. While the building 
was being constructed, the grand-jury room, in the northwest 
corner of the old court-house, was occupied as the clerk's office, 
the documents and records of the county being removed thereto. 
The clerk's office was kept in the brick structure on Court 
street, from 1855 until the completion and acceptance of the new 
court-house, in 1873. Rooms for a clerk's office had been con- 
structed and fitted up in the southeast corner of the new court- 
house, into which the clerks office was moved in the winter and 
spring of 1874, where it has since been kept.* 

Judiciary and civil list. 

Justice of the Supreme Court. 

John M. Parker, i859-67f 

Surrogates. 



John Mersereau, 1791 

Balthazar De Haert, 1798 

William Woodruff, 1802 

William Jenkins 1805 

Caleb Baker, .1806 

Robert Lawrence 1808 

Isaac S. Boardman, . ...... 1820 



Robert Lawrence, 1821 

Charles Baker, 1825 

William Maxwell, 1829 

Thomas Farrington, 1835 

Nathaniel W. Davis 1840 

Alansan Munger, 1844 



First Judges. 



Abram Miller 1791 

John Patterson, 1798 

John Miller 1807 

Emanuel Coryell, 1810 

Oamaliel H. Barstow 1818 

Silas Hopkins, 1823 



Latham A. Burrows, 1825 

Grant B. Baldwin, 1828 

John R. Drake, 1833 

Stephen Strong 1838 

Alanson Munger, 1843. 



*The compiler of this chapter desires to express his acknowledgements to Mr. LeRoy 
W. Kingman for valuable assistance rendered him; and also for the liberty of selecting 
material from historial sketches prepared by Mr. Kingman and published in the Owepo 
Gazette, of August 2, g, and i6, 1883. * 

tDate of Elections. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



S3 



County- Judges and Surrogates. 



Charles F- Avery, ..... 1847-55 

Stephen Strong,, 1856-59 

Thomas Farrington,. ... 1860-71 



Charles A. Clark,, 
Charles E. Parker, 



. 1872-83 
1884-89 



Special Judges and Surrogates. 



Charles A. Munger, . 
Alanson Munger, . . . 
William F. Warner, . . 

Alanson Munger, 

Charles A. Munger,.. 

Adolphus G. Allen,.. 

. James B. Caryl, 



.1853-55 
1856-58 
1859-61 
I 862-64 
1865-67 
1868-70 
1871 



J. Newton Dexter, . . 

Jacob B. Floyd 

J. Newton Dexter, . 
D. Wellington Allen, 
Adolphus G. Allen,. 
Judge F. Shoemakei;, 



,1872-74 
1875-77 
.1878-80 
.1881-83 
. 1884-86. 
.1887-89 



Judges of Common Pleas and Sessions. 



Joshua Mersereau, 
John Miller, 
Elijah Buck, 
Emanuel Coryell, 
Caleb Baker, 
Phineas C^tlin, 
Lewis Beers, 
Joseph Speed, 
Henry Wells, 
August Boyer, 
John Cantine, 
Joshua Ferris, 
Noah Goodrich, 
Stephen Beers, 
Thomas Floyd, 
William Jenkins, 
Jacob Willsey, 
Henry Miller, 
Benjamin Jennings, 



John Konkle, 
Thomais Floyd, 
John Robinson, 
Joel Smith, 



J. Talcott Waldo; 
Thomas Yates,-- ■ 



j-1798 



I8I4 
I8I6 

1820 

1' 

I-I82I 

I 

J 



Latham Burrows, 
David Williams, 
John H. Knapp, 
John McConnell, : 
Darius Bently, 
J. Talcott Waldo, 
John G. McDowell, 
John R. Drake, 
Joseph L. Darling, 
Elijah Shoemaker, 
George Fisher, 
J. Westlake, 
Ira Clizbee, 
Samuel Barager, 
Elisha P. Higbee, 
Arthur Yates, 
Clark Hyatt, 



Assistant Justices. 



ibio 



J. 



John Cantine, 
Benjamin Wynkoop, 
Elijah S. Hinman, 



Justices of Sessions. 

Gamaliel H. Barstow, 
Samuel Barager, 



i, 1 848-, 



•49 



1836 



1816 



1850 



54 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



J. Talcott Waldo, 
Israel S. Hoyt, 
J. Talcott Waldo, 
Sylvester Knapp, 
Oliver A. Barstow, 
Samuel Barager, 
Gaylord Willsey, 
Aug. T. Garey, 
Robert B. Miller, } 

Samuel Barager, j 

Nathaniel F. Mo&re, 
John L. Howell, 
Nathaniel F. Moore, 
Thomas Yates, 
Edwin H. Schoonover, 
Aug. T. Garey, 
Robert B. Miller, 
Lorain Curtis, 
Robert B. Miller, 
Samuel Barager, 
Samuel C. Bidwell, 
Samuel Barager, 
Horace C. Hubbard, 
Samuel Barager, 
William E Gee^ 
Luther B. West, 
Lorain Curtis, 
Samuel Barager, 
Oscar Glezen, 
John H. Yont2, 
Samuel C. Bidwell, 
William F. Belden, 
Herbert Richardson, 
John H. Yontz, 
Herbert Richardson", 
William F. Belden, 



p85i 
1852 

1853 
1854 



1855-56 


j- IS57 


[1858 


}i859 


i i860 


■ i86[ 


I 1862 


1 1863 


} 1864 


}i865 


I 1866 


1 1867 


I 1868 


1869 



Samuel C. Bidwell, 
John H. Yontz, 
Luther B. West, 
H. H. Bidwell, 
Luther B. West, 
George Cooper, 
Luther B. West, 
Daniel B. Nash, 
Anson M. Kimball, 
John C. Parmelee, 
Daniel B. Nash^ 
John C. Parmelee, 
Gershotn A. Clark, 
Robert B Miller, 
Chas. F. Curtis, 
Robert B. Miller. 
Daniel B. Nash, 
Jmritrs Collins, 
Gershom A. Clark, 
Charles F. Curtis, 
John C. Parmelee, 
Daniel B. Nash, 
Ira Hoyt, 
George H. Grafft, 
William B. Georgia, 
Noah Goodrich, 
John C. Parmelee, 
Ira Hoyt, 
Ira Hoyt, 
Noah Goodrich, 
Ira M. Howell, 
Ira Hoyt, 
Junius Collins, 
Ira M. Howell. 



District Attorneys. 



\ 1870 
|i87i 
I 1872- 

[ 1873 
[1874. 

[1875 
I 1876- 



87^. 



f 



[- 1878. 
1879- 
1880 



1881 



Vi 



882 



[ 1883. 

1 1884. 
1 1885-86- 
1887- 



William Stuart, 1 796 

Vincent Matthews, 1813 

John L. Tillinghast, 1818 

William Maxwell, 1822 

Eleazar Dana, 1823 

Aaron Konkle, 1826 

Andrew K. Gregg 1835 

Stephen Strong, 1836 

Ezra S. Sweet, 1838 

John J. Taylor, 1841 

George S. Camp, 1843 



Stephen Strong, 1844. 

Ezra S. Sweet, 1847 

Alanson Manger, 1850- 

Benjamin F. Tracy, 1853 

Delos O. Hancock 1859- 

Isaac S. Catlin, 1865 

Delos O. Hancock, 1867 

Eugene B. Gere 1870- 

Lyman Settle, 1873 

Howard J. Mead, 1880 

John G. Sears, ,1886 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



55 



County Clerks. 



Trhomas Nicholson 1791-92 

Matthew Carpenter, .1792-1817 

Thomas Maxwell, 1817-28 

Green M. Tuthill 1829-34 

David Wallis, 1835-43 

Moses Stevens, 1844-52 



LeRoy W. Kingman,, . , 1853^58 

Thomas C. Piatt, 1859-61- 

Horace A. Brooks, 1862-73 

John J. VanKleek 1874-76 

John C. Gray 1877-82 

John J. VanKleeck 1883-88 



Sheriffs. 



-James McMaster, 1791 

Joseph Hinchman, 1795 

Edward Edwards 1799 

Guy Maxwell, 1800 

John Can tine 1804 

William Woodruff, 1805 

William Jenkins, 1806 

Jonathan Piatt 1810 

Miles Forman, 181 1 

Jonathan Piatt 1813 

Miles Forman, 1 8 1 5 

Elijah S. Hinman, 18 1.9 

Henry Wells 1819 

Miles Forman, 182 1 

William Jenkins, 1822 

E. Shoemaker, 1825 

Henry McCormick,. 1828 

Lyman Covell 1 83 1 

John Jackson, 1834 

Prentice Ransom, 1837 



Robert L. Fleming, 1840 

Charles R. Barstow, 1843 

John J. Sackett, 1846 

Nathan H. WoodfA-d 1849 

Robbins D. Willard 1852 

Samuel Mills, 1855 

Daniel L. Jenks, ; 1858 

Frank L. Jones,. i860 

Barney M. Stebbins i860 

Hiram W. Shoemaker,. . , , 1861 

Joseph B. Upham, 1864 

Barney M. Stebbips, 1864 

Lewis W. Truesdeil, 1866 

Thomas F. Pearl ... 1869 

Charles C. Brooks, 1872 

William H. Rightmire, 1875 

Timothy Robertson, 1878 

Burr J. Davis, 1881 

Charles Rodman, 1884 



County Treasurers. 



Jonathan Fitch 1793 

Orringh Stoddart, ... ,..1795 

David Pixley, 1798 

Samuel Tinkham, 1803 

Joshua Ferris, 1804-36 

John Carmichael, 1837 

Daniel Armstrong, 1843 

Franklin Slosson, 1846 



William P. Stone, 1847 

Charles Piatt 1848 

Frankhn Slosson, 185 1 

Ezra S, Buckbee, 1854 

Gordon G. Manning, i860 

John B. Brush, .,1863 

Eli W, Stone 1872 

Charles F. Parmele, i88i 



TIOGA COUNTY. 



CHAPTER V. 

Internal IMPROVEME^fTs — Turnpikes — Navigation of the Susquehanna 
Early Mail Routes^-Cayuga and Susquehanna Railroad^New 
York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad — Southern Cenrral 
Railroad — Geneva, Ithaca and Sayre Railroad— Elmira, Cortland 
AND Northern Railroad — Delaware, Lackawanna and Western 
Railroad. 

THE internal improvements of our state were commenced at 
the close of the last century, and were a stupendous under- 
taking. More than half of the state was in forest. To 
nake passable roads through an almost unbroken wilderness, over 
ugged mountains, and to bridge swift and broad streams, 
•equired indomitable energy and an unshaken faith in the future 
rrowth and prosperity of the state. We cannot withhold our 
idmiration of the wisdom of those men upon whom devolved the 
iuty of shaping legislation upon this subject. The plan adopted 
■vas that of granting charters to. companies for the construction 
)f turnpikes in all parts of the state. The first act affecting the 
county of Tioga was the appointment of commissioners, in 1797, 
.0 lay out a turnpike from " Kaatskill Landing," on the Hudson, 
;o the town of Catharines, in Tioga (now Tompkins) county. 
The completion of this work led subsequently to the construc- 
;ion, by citizens of Owego and Ithaca, of the Owego and Ithaca 
Turnpike, and, as early as 18 16, Tioga county appears to have 
lad connection with all the great thoroughfares of the state. 

The next step in the matter of internal improvements was the 
construction of canals. The Hudson and Erie was opened for 
traffic, in 1825,10 the great advantage. of the state at large, but 
with very little direct benefit to the people of Tioga county, 
indeed it rather retarded the growth and prosperity of the 
county. We return for a moment to the period of the construc- 
tion of the Ithaca and Owego Turnpike. The opening of this 
avenue gave an outlet from the north, through the county, to 
Owego upon the Susquehanna, and a very considerable traffic in 
salt, plaster, flour and. grain was carried on to supply the markets 
in Pennsylvania and Maryland. A circumstance connected with 
the construction of this turnpike is perhaps of sufficient interest 



TIOGA COUNTY. 57 



to be noticed. A contest arose between the owners of the two 
rival taverns on Front street, the Bates tavern and the Frainklin, 
as to the terminus of the road at Owego. The present McMaster 
street was the original highwav leading northward from the 
village. Each of the owners of these public houses, strove to 
secure the terminus at his inn. The contest was sharp and even 
bitter. The proprietors of the turnpike finally compromised the 
maiter by fixing the terminus of the road at the intersection of 
North avenue with Main street, about midway between the rival 
taverns. 

Large store-houses were built at Owego, and for many years 
this was the principal source of supply of the above mentioned 
articles for a large territory. The traffic became so large, in fact, 
that in 1824 an effort was made to navigate the Susquehanna by 
steamboat, but which was not only a failure but caused a serious 
disaster by the explosion of its boiler. The river furnished means 
of transportation by canoes and the Durham boat, propelled by 
the use of setting- poles, and later, by a modern "ark," which, 
like the ephemeron, had but a brief existence, terminating with a 
single voyage down the Susquehanna. By means of these Dur- 
ham boats and airks an extensive traffic was maintained. The 
citizens of the county, not willi_ng to -be left behind in the growing 
prosperity of the state, with commendable energy obtained a 
charter, in 1828, for a railroad from Ithaca to Owego, which 
was opened for use in 1834, the cars being propelled by horse- 
power, making a line of communication with Cayuga lake and 
the Erie canal. Direct communication with the city of New 
York was accomplished by the extension of the Erie railroad to 
Owego in the month of June, 1849. 

A, second effort was iaiade, about 1835, to navigate the Susque- 
hanna by steam-power. The Susquehanna Steamboat and Naviga- 
tion company was formed, which procured the construction of a 
stern-wheel boat. This novel attempt at river navigation alsoi 
proved unsuccessful. It served to illustrate, however, the enter- 
prise of the commercial men of that period, and their desire to 
keep abiteast with the internal improvements going forward in 
other portions of the state. 

. At the first session of the Vlth Congress of the United States, 
1799-1800, a mail-route was established f-romthe Hudson, byway 
of Kaatskill, Harpersfield, Oleout, Unadilla and Windsor, in New 
York, to Tioga Point (Athens), Pa. The same act provided for 
a mail-route from Wilkesbarre, by way of Wyalusing, Tioga 



$8 TIOGA COUNTY. 



Point, Newtown (Elmira), Painted Post and Bath, to Canandaigua. 
It is difficult to conceive how a mail could have been conveyed 
over these routes, where there were neither roads nor bridges. 
For fifteen years, however, the pioneer "had been dependent upon 
private hands, and chance waj's and means for receiving by letter 
or verbal communication, intelligence from distant friends. A 
postoffice was established at Owego, with Stephen Mack as post- 
master, about 1803. In 1814 the mail was carried between 
Chenango Point and Tioga Point in a one-horse wagon. This 
was continued until 1816, when Conrad Peter commenced carry- 
ing the mail between Owego and Newburg, on the Hudson, in a 
wagon drawn by four horses. Nine years later (1825), Stephen 
B. Leonard established a line of coaches running twice a week 
between Owego and Bath, Steuben county. Subsequently Lewis 
Manning and his son, Chester J. Manning, of Owego, Major 
Morgan, of Chenango Point, Cooley and Maxwell, of Newtown 
(Elmira), and John McOee, of Bath, became the proprietors of the 
great Southern Tier Mail and Passenger Coach Line, between 
Newburgh and Bath, which became a daily line and was con- 
tinued until the opening of the New York and Erie railroad, in 
1849. Thus the first fifty years of this century were a period in 
which were made three marked advances in the mail service : 
first, from the irregular and chance service, to one at intervals 
of two weeks ; second, a mail twice each week, and improving to 
a daily delivery ; third, the present mail service by railroad, 
beginning in 1849. 

The changes wrought in the facilities for travel, commerce, 
transportation of the mails, and by the invention of the telegraph, 
all within the past forty-five years, are as marvelous as any of the 
thousand-and-one tales of the "Arabian Nights" Entertainment." 
As an illustration of the magnitude of these changes let it be 
noted that towns distant from each other twenty miles by coach 
have practically been rendered but two miles apart bv the intro- 
duction of the railroad. 

The Cayuga and Susquehanna Railroad was the second rail- 
road chartered in this state. It was incorporated January 28, 
1828, with a capital stock of $150,000.00 and authorized to con- 
struct a road from Ithaca to Owego. No attempt, however, was 
made to construct the road until the building of the Chemung 
canal from Elmira to Watkins. The successful accomplishment 
of this project was regarded by the citizens of Ithaca and Owego 
as detrimental to the interests of their towns, and a movement 



TIOGA COUNTY. 59 

■was Started by Simeon DeWitt, then a resident of Ithaca, and 
•others to build the road. In March 1832, the capital stock was 
increased to $300,000.00 and the road was opened in April, 1834. 
In the following month the capital stock was increased to $450,- 
■000.00 and in April, 1838, the legislature authorized a loan to 
the company of $250,000.00 taking a lien upon the road and its 
-appurtenances. The "panic" of 1837 crippled the company ; it 
failed to pay the interest to the state, and on May 20, 1842, the 
•comptroller sold it at auction to Archibald Mclntire and others. 
The road as originally constructed was twent)'-nine miles in 
length, with two inclined planes ascending from Ithaca.. The 
first of these was 1,733)^ feet long, with 405 feet rise, and the 
second was 2,125 f^et in length, with a rise of one foot in twenty- 
one. The total elevation in eight miles was 602 feSt above its 
southern terminus at Ithac^< It was Operated on the first plane 
by a stationary steant-efigine, while horses were used as the 
•motive-power on the balance of the road. After passing into the 
hands of Mr. Mclntire,. the inclined planes were replaced by 
others of lesser grade, traversing the mountain in a zigzag man- 
ner, and locomotives superseded the horse-power and stationary 
-engine. The main line of the road is now 34.61 miles in length, 
and the total track mileage is 40.61. The road is leased to the 
Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad company, and is 
•operated by them as the Cayuga division. 

. The New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad company was 
incorporated as the New York and Erie Railroad company, 
April 24, 1832. In 1861 it was re-organized as the Erie Railway 
company, which organization was continued until 1878, when it 
was again re-organized, this time as the New York, Lake Erie 
and Western. The first section of this road was opened for 
traffic from Piermont to Goshen, in 1841 ; from Goshen to Mid- 
■dletown in June, 1843 ; to Port Jervis in January, 1848 ; to Bing- 
hamton in December, 1848; to Elmira in October, 1849; to Corn- 
ing in January 1850 ; and through to Dunkirk, the then western 
terminus. May 14, 185 1. The opening of the road brought a 
wealthy and comparatively isolated section of the state in com- 
munication with the sea-board, and soon became the outlet for a 
large Western traffic. Although the " Erie," as it is familiarly 
known, has had a checkered career, it has ever been regarded as 
one of the representative railways of the United States. The 
road crosses the towns of Owego, Tioga, and Barton, in Tioga 
county. 



6o TIOGA COUNTY". 



The Southern Central Railroad company was incorporated irt 
September, 1865, as the Lake Ontario, Aubtfrn & New York 
railroad, but subsequently its present corporate title was substi- 
tuted. The company as originally organized was authorized 
to construct a road from Fair Haven, on Lake Ontario, to Athens, 
near the Pennsylvania state line. Twenty-five miles of the road 
were opened in 1869; forty-three in 1870; twenty-seven in 1871 ; 
and the remaining twenty-two miles in the winter of 1871-72. The 
Southern Central railway is 117 miles in length. It crosses the 
towns of Richford, Berkshire, Newark Valley, Owego, Tioga and 
Barton, in. Tioga county. On January i, 1887, the road was 
leased to the L. V. R. R. Co. for a period of 975. years. 

The Geneva, Ithaca and Sayre Railroad Company is successor 
to the Geneva, Ithaca and Athens Railroad Company, which 
was formed by a consolidation, May 25, 1874, of the Ithaca and 
Athens and the Geneva and Ithaca Railroad Companies. The 
former was opened in 1871, the latter in 1874. Having defaulted 
in payment ot interest, the G. I. & A. R. R. was placed in the 
hands of a receiver, March 24, 1875, and re-organized under its' 
present name, October 2, 1876. On April 5, 1879, the Cayuga 
Southern Railroad, by an act of the legislature, was consolidated 
with the G. I. & S. R. R. Co., and now forms a part of its line. 
The former road was organized as the Cayuga Lake Railroad in 
1867; opened May i, 1873; sold under foreclosure July 26, 1877, 
and re-organized. The G. I. & S. R. R. enters the southwestern 
part of the county, and after passing through a part of Barton, 
enters -Chemung county, to appear in Tioga county again, pass- 
ing through the town of Spencer. , > 

The Elmira, Cortland and Northern Railroad Company is a 
re-organization, March 7, 1884, of the Utica, Ithaca and Elmira 
Railroad Company. That company was constituted by a con. 
solidation of the Ithaca and Cortland, and Utica, Horseheads and 
Elmira Railroad Companies, the former of which was organized 
July 31, 1869, and the latter April 2, 1870. It traverses the towns 
of Spencer and Candor, in Tioga county. 

The Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad, as it passes 
through Tioga county, traversing the towns of Owego and 
Nichols, was originally built as the New York, Lackawanna and 
Western Railroad. In October, 1882, it was leased to the Dela- 
ware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad Company, thus extend- 
ing that company's line through to Buffalo. 



TIOGA county'. 6e 



CHAPTER VI. 

Newspapers of Owego— Of Waverly— Of Newark Valley— Of Spencer 
— ^Of Candor. 

THE first newspaper published in this part' of the State of 
New York was The American Constellation. It was estab- 
lished November 23, 1800, arid was dated at " Union, Tioga 
County, N. Y.," although it was really printed at Chenanga 
village, a small settlement on the Chenango river, about one 
mile above the present city of Binghamton. Mr. Cruger after- 
ward removed his printing office to Owego. The name of the 
paper was changed in August, 1803, to The American Farmer, SlXv^^ 
some time afterward Stephen Mack became its publisher. In the 
winter of 1813. Stephen B. Leonard purchased a one-half interest 
in the paper. June 15, 1814, after the death of Judge Mack, Mr. 
Leonard changed the name of the paper to The Owego Gazette, 
which name it still bears. In October, 1827, Jonas B. Shurtleff 
became Mr. Leonard's partner. This partnership continued, two- 
years, when Mr. Shurtleff withdrew from the firm. John J. C. 
Cantine was Mr. Leonard's partner from 1833 to 1835. In the- 
fall of the latter year the establishment was sold to Shurtleff & 
Bull. In July 1836, Mr. Shurtleff purchased his partner's inter- 
est and continued the publication of the paper until February,. 
1839, when Edward P. Marble became the proprietor. In 
December, 1841, the paper passed into the hands of Charles C. 
T^homas, and Alanson Munger became its editor. July 15, 1842, 
Thomas Woods succeeded Mr. Thomas as proprietor of the 
paper, and Gideon O. Chase became the editor. In January, 
1843, Hiram A. Beebe purchased the paper, subject to a chattle 
mortgage of $400, which had been given by Mr. Marble. At 
this time the division of the Democratic party into "Hunkers"" 
and "Barnburners" occurred. The leaders of the "Barnburners"' 
induced Mr. Woods to foreclose the mortgage, and the establish- 
ment was sold to Mr. Woods. Mr. Beebe at once secured a 
new press and material and opened a new office. The result 
was that two papers called The Owego Gazette were published at 
the same time. A suit brought to collect payment for certain 



62 TIOGA COUNTY. 



legal advertising, resulted in a decision in favor of Mr. Beebe, the 
court holding that the sale of the Gazette printing office on a 
mortgage foreclosure did not include the good will or the name 
of the paper. Mr. Woods was accordingly compelled to discon- 
tinue the publication of his paper. Mr. Beebe sold the Gazette to 
Thomas Pearsall, in July, 1845, who sold it to David Wallis 
.& Son, in March, 1846. The next year Mr. Beebe repurchased 
the paper. In August, 1871, he sold a one-half interest in the 
establishment to LeRoy W. Kingman. In September, 1880, the 
latter became sole proprietor. The. Gazette has always been 
Democratic in politics. 

On the 2d of September, 1828, Stephen S. Chatterton com- 
menced the publication of the Owe^o Free Press, and- supported 
John Quincy Adams, the Republican (or Whig) candidate for 
President. Gen. Jackson, the Democratic candidate, was elected 
and after the election the publication of the paper was discon- 
tinued. 

The organ of the old Whig party, the Owego Advertiser, was 

-established in Owego, in 1836, and its first number was issued 

March 25th. In June, 1853, the establishment was sold to a stock 

company, composed of William Smyth and eleven other persons, 

.and the office was leased for one year to Powell & Barnes. At 

the same time the name of the paper was changed to the Southern 

Tier Times. Mr. Smyth purchased the interests of the other 

stockholders, in June, 1854. June 7, 1855, he changed the name 

to Owego Times. In 1872, Mr. Smyth took his son, Wm. A. 

.Smyth, into partnership, and the paper has since been published 

by Wm. Smyth & Son. Since the formation of the Republican 

party the Times has been its organ. 

The division of the Democratic party in this state into two 
factions, one of which was known as the " Free Soil" Democrats, 
resulted in the establishment of a "Free Soil" newspaper in 
•Owego. It was called The Tioga Freeman. Its editor was Gideon. 
O. Chase, it was owned by a stock company, and John Dow 
was the publisher. Its first number was issued May 2, 1848. In 
September, 1849, the office was destroyed by fire and its publi- 
cation was discontinued. 

In April, 1853, Chas. P. Avery, Thomas C. Piatt, Chas. A. 
Munger, and others, issued the first number of a monthly mag- 
azine called St. Nicholas. It was published one year. It con- 
tained among other things a series of papers entitled "The Susque- 



TIOGA COUNTY. 63 

hanna Valley,'' written by Judge Avery, and which have been 
che foundation of all early history of Tioga county. 

August 23, 1855, Ahdrew H. Calhoun issued the first number 
•of the Owego American^ the organ of the American, or "Know- 
Nothing" party. Its business offiqe was in Owego, but the paper 
was printed on the press of The American Citizen at Ithaca. Mr. 
Calhoun was the " Know-Nothing " candidate for State Senator 
and was defeated. At the conclusion of the campaign the publi- 
<:ation of the paper was discontinued. 

In 1870, Charles H. Keeler, the proprietor of a job printing 
office, commenced the publication of a small advertising sheet, 
for free circulation, known as ' the Trg.de Reporter. It was 
enlarged and called the Tioga County Record, March 18, 1871. 
August 3, 1885, the paper was sold to C. S. Scott and is pow 
published as a daily and weekly, by Messrs.- Scott & Watros. 

The defection of a large number of the prominent men of the 
Republican party, known as Liberal Republicans, resulted in the 
establishment of an organ in Owego. It was called The Ahwaga 
Chief, and its first number was issued February 23, 1872. Its last 
number was published November i, 1872, with the close of the 
Presidential campaign. 

The publication of The Workingntan, the organ of the Green- 
backers, was commenced in Owego, November 1, 1877, by two 
printers, Webster & Graves. It died a natural death with its 
issue of February 28, 1879. 

Benjamin B. F. Graves commenced the publication of a news- 
paper in the interest of Temperance on the i8th of January, 
1879. It '^^^ entitled The Family Journal and Temperance Advo- 
cate, and was published but five weeks. 

Another Temperance organ, The Resolute, was published the 
same year. Its first number was dated April 12, 1879. Its 
-editors were G. M. Jordan and G. W. Tyson. It expired with 
its thirty-fourth issue, November 8, 1879. 

The Owego Blade, a Republican newspaper was established' 
January i, 1880. by McCormick & Young. It afterward became 
the property of Eugene B. Gere, who published it/ until April, 
1887, when it was discontinued. 

The first number of the Owego Press, a monthly newspaper 
■devoted to educational matters, was issued by C. R. Burnette, in 
September, 1886, and expired with its twelfth issue, August, 1887. 
■ Daily Journalism in Owego. — The first attempt to establish a 
daily newspaper in Owego was made in 1838, by Mr. Calhoun, 



64 TIOGA COUNTY. 



publisher o{ the Owego Advertiser. Its first number was issuetf 
October i8th, in that year. It was published but a few weeks^ 

The next attempt to establish a daily journal was made by 
Mr. Beebe, in 1855, the first number appearing- on the i8th day 
of October. It was discontinued on the 6th of the following- 
December. 

The Dai/y Gazette was revived May 27, 1861, at the commence- 
ment of the civil war. It was not properly sustained by the 
public and its publication was discontinued in the following- 
October. 

Backed by neither capital nor brains, the first number of the 
Daily Owegoan appeared October 7, 1879. ^^ was published by 
Dorsey B. Gibson. It struggled along until the 4th of the follow- 
ing August, when it ceased to exist. 

The Owego Daily Blade was established by E. B. Gere, and 
its first number was issued November 4, 1882. With" its issue 
dated April 23, 1887, its publication was discontinued. 

The daily edition of the Record, previously mentioned, was 
started December 20, 1886, by Messrs. Scott & Watros, its 
present publishers. 

Waverly Newspapers. — The Waverly Luminary was established 
by Thomas Messenger, October 3, 185 1. The office of the paper 
was on the second floor of the Spialding block, and here under 
Messenger, " Brick " Pomeroy took his first lessons in " the art 
preservative of arts," and, it is said, at an early age developed 
those traits of character which have since made him so well 
known. The Luminary had a brief existence of about ten months, 

F. H. Baldwin soon after purchased the office and material, and, 
September 17, 1852, published the initial number of the Waverly 
Advocate. M. H. Bailey succeeded him in 1853, publishing the 
paper for a few months, when, in 1854, F. H. Baldwin and William 
Folleys purchased the paper, and continued the publication until 
i860, when O. H. P. Kinney succeeded to Mr. Bald win's interest. 
PoUeys & Kinney continued as publishers till 1883, during which 
year both died, the former in June and the latter in September. 

G. D. Genung, who for about a year previous to Mr. Kinney's 
^death had edited the Advocate, continued its publication, for 

the administrators of the estates, G. F. Wellar and J. G. Kinney, 
until the following April, when legal questions regarding the set- 
tlement of the estates of the deceased publishers arose that 
resulted in the closing of the office. Soon after this, J. C. Shear 
purchased the Kinney interest in the business ; and, July 15, 1884,. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 65 



E. M. Fenner purchased the paper and resumed its publica- 
.tion. January i, 1885; Mr. Fenner's father beqame nominally 
associated with him in the publication of the Advocate, under the 
-firm name of E. M. Fenner & Co., and G. D. Genung was again 
engaged as manager and editor of the paper, a position which he 
.has filled to the present time. February ist., E, M. Fennerretired 
from the concern, and June 1.5th it was sold to Messrs. Wellar & 
.Shear, who continued the publication until November i, 1885, 
when they sold to its present proprietor, E. L. .Vincent, a talented 
-newspaper man. The paper has been increased to a nine-column 
folio, new type, presses, etc., have been added, and it is now the 
leading paper published in the place, and ranks with the lore- 
.most country newspapers of the day. It is Republican in, politics, 
liberal and enterprising, and under the present Aianagement 
more prosperous than ever before in its history. 

The Waver ly Enterprise, was established October 15, 1867, by 
.Prank T. Scudder, a young man of much ability. It first 
appeared as a four-column monthly folio, 12x18 inches, then as a 
•semi-monthly of 18x24 inches, and thus continued for about three 
years, when it was changed to a five-column folio, and published 
as a weekly. It. was enlarged from time to time until, in 1873, it 
was an eight-column folio, and one of the most prosperous news- 
papers in the county. Mr. Scudder's health failing, he sold a 
half interest, in 1874, to P. C. Van Geld.er. The partnership 
-continued about six months, when Mr. Van Gelder purchased 
Mr. Scudder's remaining interest, and then sold a half interest to 
Amos Roberts. Shortly after, Mr. Van Gelder leased his inter- 
.-est to J. A. Fraser, and the business was continued; until October 
7, 1876, by Roberts & Fraser, at which date the office was entirely 
destroyed by fire. The subscription list and good-will of, the 
-office were then purchased by James B. Bray, who was, formerly 
foreman of the office, but was at that tiaie conducling a job 
-office of his own, and the paper was revived under its present tif;le. 
The Waverly Free Press. Mr. Bray, who had been in failing 
.health for many years, soon found that the added responsibility 
was undermining his remaining strength, and in December, 1877, 
be sold the pffice to Cyrus Marsh, who continued in the office 
but two weeks, when Mr. Bray assumed control again, and has 
.since continued as editor and proprietor.. The office has always 
been prosperous, especially so under the management of its 
. founder and the present .proprietor. The paper is especially 
-devoted to local news and .home interests, and is fearless in all 



66 TIOGA COUNTY. 



matters pertaining to the public interests. It has always been 
Independent Republican in politics, but never extremely partisap. 

The Waver ly and Athens Democrat, a seven-column folio, was 
established by David P. Shutts, in the winter of 1867-68, and was 
continued by him about one year, when he formed a partnership 
with S. C. Clizbe; but the partnership existed but a few months, 
when Mr. Clizbe retired, and Mr. Shutts continued the paper 
until 1870, when it suspended. The material was purchased by 
PoUeys & Kinney, then proprietors of the Waverly Advocate. Mr. 
Charles Rogers was the political editor of the Democrat. 

The Waverly Review was established by Ira L. Wales, during 
the summer of 1875. It was a seven column folio, Democratic in 
politics, and from the first had a precarious existence. Two 
attempts were made to establish a daily paper, but neither suc- 
ceeded beyond a few months, and in April, 1882, Mr. Wales 
closed his office here, and moved the material to Binghamton. 

The Waverly Tribune, an eight page weekly, was established in 
1882, by W. H. Noble and A. G. Reynolds, under the firm name 
of Noble & Reynolds. The first number appeared April 27, and 
three numbers were issued by this firm, when Mr. Reynolds sold 
his interest to A. C. Noble, a brother of the senior partner. Since 
that time the paper has been conducted by these brothers, under 
the firm name of Noble & Noble. From the outset the Tribune 
has met with success, the office having grown from a small job 
office to one of the best equipped in the county. The paper is 
non partisan. 

Newark Valley Newspaper. — The Tioga County Herald was estab- 
lished March 4, 1876, by G. M. Jordan, now a resident of San 
Antonia, Florida, and George Riley, Jr., now one of the proprie- 
tors of the Press, at Ottumwa, Iowa. In May of the same year 
Mr. Riley disposed of his interest in the business to H. A. 
LeBarron. Messrs. Jordan and LeBarron conducted the paper 
until August 25, 1877, when Charles L. Noble purchased the 
interest of Mr. LeBarron. On January i, 1878, Mr. Noble be- 
came sole proprietor, and conducted the paper until January I, 
1884, when G. E. Purple became a member of the firm, and since 
that time the paper has been published by Noble and Purple. 

Spencer Newspapers. — The first attempt at publishing a ne\ys- 
paper in Spencer was made in 1874. In the spring of that year, 
Otho Hedges, a young man who probably possessed more enter- 
prise than capital, took up his residence in the village and began 
the publication of the Spencer News. The first number had four 



TIOGA COUNTY. ' 6j 



pages, about 9x12 inches. In a few weeks the paper assumed 
somewhat larger proportions; but struggled along with a small 
circulation. Toward the close of the summer, an enlargement 
was made to four six-cohimn pages, with a " patent " outside, and 
the News made quite a pretentious appearance ; but this sudden 
expansion seemed to be in excess of the elasticity of the editorial 
funds, and a financial explosion took place in the fall of that year. 
No further effort at journalism was made in Spencer until the 
summer of 1878, when the Spencer Herald was started by Pride 
t&Foote, on the 22d of August, an independent journal which is 
maintained to the present. In the fall of 1878 Mr. Pride retired 
from the concern, and Foote continued the publication to the 
summer of 1880, when it was purchased by J. LeRoy Nixon,, 
who enlarged the paper from seven columns to eigl?t, and soon 
thereafter to nine ; but finding this size too expensive for profit^ 
dropped back to eight columns, its present size. On January i, 
1887, the office was purchased by its present owners, P. C. Van 
Gelder & Son, who put in steam-power, and other facilities,, 
dressed the paper in new type, and changed its form from foui" 
to eight pages. The paper has a large local circulation; and a 
liberal local advertising patronage. 

Candor Newspapers. — The first venture in journalism in Candor 
was made in 1867, by Clizbe & Mandeville, who issued the Candor 
Press for a time, and sold it to Benjamin Graves, who continued 
its publication under the name of the Candor Free Press for some 
time, and then discontinued it. In 1872, Wales & Cameron issued 
the Candor Review, Ira S. Wales succeeding: and in 1873 the 
office was burned, and the publication of the paper discontinued. 
The Independent, the next in order, was established by T. H. Pride^ 
October 14, 1876, and was continued until a recent date, since 
which time the village has been without a paper. 



CHAPTER VII. 

War of the Rebellion — First Meeting of County Commissioners — 
SuBskQUENT Meetings — Appropriations — Statement of Total Ex- 
penditures. 

IN a work so brief in its scope as this Gazetteer, it would be 
folly to attempt a detailed history of the various regiments 
and companies made up wholly or in part by Tioga county 
men, who served in the late rebellion. In our remarks on this 



■68 TIOGA COUNTY. 

_ \ [ [ 

subject, then, we will, confine ourselves tQ the action of the county- 
supervisors during the war period. 

The first meeting of the board for war purposes was held 
April 27, 1861. It vvas called by the. clerk, by request of seven 
supervisors, and Watson L. Hoskins was chosen chairman and 
Franklin Slosson, clerk. Six thousand dollars were appropriated 
for relief of soldiers' families, and a committee .appointed to 
negotiate a loan for, that amount on the faith of the county. The 
■disbursement of the funds was placed in the hapds of the super- 
visors of the respective towns, with authority., to draw on the 
treasureir for such amounts as were needed. The resolution 
passed unanimously. At the annual meeting in November an 
additional sum was appropriated to the. volunteer aid fund, At 
a special meeting held July 29, 1862, Charles C, Thomas, chair- 
man, and Watson L. Hoskins, clerk, the board voted to raise 
^3,920.00 to pay a bounty of $10.00 each, to 392 men to fill the 
quota ot the county, and also $1,500.00 to pay the expenses ol 
procuring. the enlistment of the sapie. On August 20, the same 
year, $4,840.00 were appropriated to pay the same bounty to 484 
men, then required to fill the quota of the county, under the call 
of the president. Supervisors Pratt, of Barton, Deming, ot Rich- 
iord, and Thomas, of Owego, were the disbursing committee. 
The clerk having enlisted, Thomas C. Piatt wag elected to fill the 
vacancy. The treasurer reported in November, 1862, the pay- 
ment of $7,317.00 for relief of soldiers' families, of which $817.00 
were refunded by the state, and for bounties $7,420.00, expenses 
.$1,134.00, and interest $298.34 — total, under bounty resolutions, 
$8,852.34. 

On December 17, 1863, at a special meeting, a bounty. of $300.00 
was offered to volunteers under the call of November, 1863, 
requiring'427 men to fill. the quota of the county. Bonds to the 
amount of $130,000.00 were authorized to be issued, payable $40,- 
000.00 on the first day of February, 1865 and 1866, and $25,000.00 
on the same day in 1867 and 1868, provided so much funds were 
needed. The amount paid for each town was to be charged 
against the same, and collected of the town by tax. 

On February 5, 1864, the board voted to continue the bounty 
of $300.00 for men enlisting under the call of January, 1864, and 
changed the time of payment of the bonds.to $20,000.00 February 
I, 1866 and 1867, and the balance in 1868.. On February 25 the 
bounty was voted to be. paid to 286 men already enlisted and 
credited. 



TIOGA COUNTY. 69 

On July 26, 1864, the treasurer had paid 702 volunteers, and had 
issued bonds to the amount of $210,600.00. A bounty was then 
voted of $300.00 per man for volunteers, under the call for 500, 
000 men, and a vote was had making the bonds already issued a 
general county charge, to be assessed at large upon the county. 
Other bonds were voted, $40*000.00 to be paid February i, 1869, 
and the balance February i, 1870, with interest at seven percent, 
and for an amount sufficient to pay for men to fill the quota, 
which wa,s subsequently found to be 327, and $98,100.00 of bonds 
were issued. At the annual meeting of November, 1864, the sum 
of $2,660.00 was voted to pay recruiting agents $10.00 per man 
for recruits. $63,564.00 were raised, by tax on the several towns, 
for bounties paid this same year. 

On December 30, 1864, the bounty of $300.00 was ^ntinued to 
volunteers enlisting to fill the quotas, and on January 24, 1865, a 
bounty of $300.00 for one year and $600.00 for three years was 
offered to volunteers enlisting for the respective terms, and bonds 
voted to be paid, one-half in one year and the balance in two 
years. On March i, 1865, the bounty to one-year volunteers was 
increased to $450.00 and bonds for same made payable February 
I, 1866. On May 10, bonds for $5,100.00 for expenses were issued, 
payable February i, 1866. At the annual meeting, the county 
treasurer was authorized tore-issue bonds falling due February i, 
1866, to the amount of $125,000.00 and to pay the towns $3,355.00 
for bounties paid by them respectively. A claim made by Broome 
county for volunteers furnished, and credited to Tioga, was com- 
promised by the payment of $3,000.00. 

The total amount of appropriations for war purposes by the 
county authorities was as follows: 

Under the orders of 1861 for relief of volunteers and their families $ 13,079.00 

Under calls of 1863 and 1864 for 700,000 men, 702 volunteers at $300 210,600.60 

Under the call for 500,000 men 1864, 362 men ; 97,800.00 

Under the call of 1865 • 128,550.00 

Total bounties and relief $450,029.00 

Expenses 13,978.00 

Interest paid on bonds 102,302.00 

Total payments by the county $566,309.00 

From this amount is to be deducted the amount refunded by 

the state under the general bounty law, viz., cash $ 49,100.00 

Revenue 7 per cent, bonds.... ; Zio.ooo.oo 

Interest paid to the county on the latter 18,076.00 

Total from state - • • $277,176.00 

Net amount paid by county ■ • $289, 133.00 

Besides this, the towns paid heavy amounts for bounties, in 
addition to the county bounty. The last county bond for war 
purposes was paid in 1870. 

*6 



GAZETTEER OF TOWNS. 



BARTON* lies in the southwestern corner of the countyr 
and is bounded north by Spencer and a small portion of the 
county line, east by Tioga and Nichols, south by the state 
line, and west by the county of Chemung. It has an area of 
32,686 acres, of which about 28,000 acres are improved land. It 
was taken from Tioga and formed into a separate township by an 
act of the legislature passed March 23, 1824. It has been the 
scene of tragic events — its early record rises to the romance of 
history, and is traced by a competent hand in the first chapter of 
this work. The original titles to the soil, how obtained, etc., is 
detailed in chapter two. To these chapters we refer the reader. 
Topography. — The surface of the town is generally hilly, though 
a small portion of level land lies along the southern border. The 
highlands on the west rise abruptly from the valley of Cayuta. 
creek,t and are divided into two ridges by the valley of Ellis 
creek. Their summits are broad and rolling, and to some extent 
covered with forests. The principal water-courses are the Cayuta, 
Ellis, and Buttson creeks. They flow in a southerly direction, 
and empty into the Susquehanna, which forms the south part of 
the east border, dividing the town from Nichols. The Chemung 
river forms a very small portion of the west border of the south 
part. The soil is a rich alluvium in the valleys, and a sandy and 
gravelly loam upon the hills. A sulphur spring is found on Ellis 
creek, near the center of the town. The inhabitants are chiefly 
engaged in agricultural pursuits, stock-raising and dairying being' 
the specialties. 

Origin of the Name of Barton. — In 1849, Prof. Chauncey A. 
Goodrich published what he styled A Revised and Enlarged 

* For this sketch we are largely indebted to Hon. William Fiske Warner, and city 
editor George D. Genung, of Waverly. 

f Locally, this stream is known as Shepard's creek. 



TOWN OF BARTON. 71 



Edition of Noah Webster's Unabridged Dictionary. In this work 
the word " Barton " is defined as follows : " Saxon, (berc-ton, Bar- 
ley town.) The demain lands of a manor; the manor itself, and 
sometimes the out-houses." He gives as authorities, Johnson and 
Blount. In 1656, Thomas Blount, of England, published a Dic- 
tionary of Hard Words. In 1754, about a century later, Samuel 
Johnson published his celebrated dictionary, in which he follows 
Blount as to the origin and meaning of this word. As we see, 
about a century later, Noah Webster publishes his dictionary, 
giving the same origin and meaning of the word, and Johnson 
and Blount as authorities. 

The first constitution of the state of New York was adopted 
April 20, 1777. Up to this period, and until the yf ar 1813, the 
law pertaining to personal and real property was the same as it 
was m England, and many of the original owners of land granted 
by patent by the state, made arrangement for the formation of 
" manors," whereby, as in England, large landed property might 
be held and perpetuated in families. Some of the well-known 
families of this state owned large manors "upon the Hudson river, 
such as the Livingston Manor, Radcliff Manor, and others. 

Upon a map of the county of Tioga, published by the Surveyor- 
General of the state of New York, in 1829, showing the original 
survey and numbers of lots, there appear two large lots in the 
plot of Coxe's Patent. These large lots appear, by this old map, to 
be reserved, and the word " manor" is printed upon them. Upon 
the same map appears lot No. 175, in the town of Barton, bounded 
on the west by Cayuta creek, and extending eastward about four 
miles, and one and one-half miles in width. Undoubtedly this 
large lot was intended by the origmal patentee to be reserved as 
a manor, and we will suppose that being familiar with the quaint 
old Saxon word, he placed the word " Barton " upon the survey 
of the land that was filed in the proper office in Albany. 

A town frequently derives its name from that of some prom- 
inent individual resident, or the owner of a large amount of its 
territory. For example, the town of Nichols derived its name 
from Nichols, the patentee of a large portion of the land in that 
town, but who never resided there. No prominent person by the 
name of Barton ever lived or owned property in Barton. It is 
a reasonable conjecture, therefore, that when the project of form- 
ing a new town from Tioga was conceived, surveys and original 
maps were consulted for proper boundaries. Upon making such 



72 TOWN OF BARTON. 



examination, probably, this word '"Barton" was found upon one 
of the maps, and hence the name of the town became Barton. 

In this connection it should be stated that the ambitious pro- 
jects of the original patentees for reserving large landed estates 
for their families, and perpetuating them, were forever defeated 
by the legislature of the state, in 1813, by a law forbidding the 
creation of such estates, and providing that land could only be 
devised for the benefit of two lives in being, and twenty-one years 
beyond two such lives. 

It would appear that the word " barton " is used by modern 
writers in a much more restricted sense than formerly attached. 
For example, Thomas Hardy, one of the most careful writers 
of England, in a recent work, revives this almost obsolete word 
in the following sentence : " Now his nearest way led him 
through the dairy barton," — a yard or appurtenance of a dairy 
farip, as is evident from the context. But this is only one of 
many instances in which words have lost their original meaning. 

Spanish Hill. — This interesting elevation, though just without 
the town's limits, must be noticed in the history of Barton. Span- 
ish hill is situated in the immediate vicinity of Waverly, in the 
township of Athens, Pa. This hill is one of the notable features 
of the valley. A range of hills stretches from the Chemung river 
along the north side of Waverly for the distance of a mile and 
more, to Cayuta creek; Spanish hill lies south of the west end of 
this range, and is about five hundred yards east of the Chemung 
river. Its east, south and west sides are quite abrupt and form 
nearly three-fourths of a circle, rising to the height of one hun- 
dred and twenty-five feet above the river. The top is nearly level, 
and embraces about twelve acres. The broken hillocks lying 
adjacant to the north suggest the idea that at some period thev 
formed a part of this hill, and that Spanish hill had then the 
form of a cone, and that by some titanic labor the cone had been 
cut away and the earth carelessly thrown in uneven masses to the 
north side, leaving a level plane one hundred and twenty-five feet in 
elevation above the surrounding plane below. An examination of 
the stones upon the top of the hill quickly dispells this supposition, 
as it is at once observed that these stones contain shells, and that the 
surface of this hill once formed the bed of the sea, and the hill 
therefore was formed by natural causes and not by the hand of 
man. Spanish hill is a beautiful object, and visable from all parts 
■of the triangular valley. But why is it called Spanish hill? Like 
the origin of the name of the town of Barton, the answer to this 



TOWN OF BARTON. 73 

question is only speculative, and yet the following theory is so 
plausable as almost to force conviction as to the genuine origin 
of the name; and being so plausable it is deemed of sufficient im- 
portance to entitle it to a place in a work of this character. 

The discovery of this continent by Columbus, in 1492, necessa- 
rily created a great excitement in Spain, then one of the most 
powerful nations of the world. Her naval power was superior to 
all others, and England had trembled by reason of the powerful 
naval force that had been sent by Spain threatening to crush the 
kingdom. After the discovery, the Spanish government sent 
many expeditions to make further discoveries and conquests. 
Cortez, Pizzaro and other Spanish leaders carried the Spanish 
flag to Central America, Mexico and Peru, bringing back rich spoils 
from these conquered lands. De Soto, in 1541, conducted one of 
these notable expeditions through Florida and made the discovery 
of the Mississippi. These were expeditions sent by the government 
of Spain. But the intense interest caused by these regular expe- 
ditions sent out for legitimate purposes, led to the organization 
of private and irregular expeditions, organized for the purpose of 
plunder and the search for gold and silver, that in their character 
were not unlike pirates. It is supposed that a band of this char- 
acter, composed of about two hundred, sailed from Spain about the 
time De Soto landed in Florida, in the year 1541. This band 
made their way further north and entered the bay of Chesapeake. 
They were armed to the teeth, and were provided with all imple- 
ments needful for mining purposes. The idea prevailed that 
all the rivers of the new continent led to rich mines of gold and 
silver. The discovery of gold along the streams of California, in 
1849, gives a fair illustration of the wild excitement that prevailed 
in Spain in the year 1540, about three centuries earlier. This band 
of two hundred anchored their vessel in the Chesapeake Bay, arid 
leaving it in the care of a portion of the crew, made their way up 
the Susquehanna. Above the rapids, below Harrisburgh, they 
made suitable boats for the conveyance of their provisions, camp 
and mining tools. At this period the Five Nations of Indians 
occupying the territory, that now forms the State of New York, 
had been, formed as a confederacy, and dominated all the tribes 
as far south as the gulf, of Mexico. They had become enraged 
by reason of the Spanish treatment of their tributary tribes in- 
habiting Florida, and kept a watchful eye upon all the movements 
of the Spanish expeditions, large and small, regular and irregular. 
Of this powerful confederacy the Spaniards appear to have been 



74 TOWN OF BARTON. 



wholly ignorant. The moment, however, this marauding band 
of 200 Spaniards landed in Chesapeake Bay, a fast runner carried 
the information to the chiefs of the Five Nations at the head 
waters of the Susquehanna. The southern border of these five 
tribes was at Tioga Point (Athens), four miles south from Spanish 
hill, and at the confluence of the Susquehanna and Tioga (Che- 
mung) rivers. The confederate Indians watching the approaching 
Spaniards, prepared to meet them somewhere in the vicinity of 
Spanish hill. The pirates, finding that an armed force was assem- 
bled to contest their invasion, sought this prominent hill for shel- 
ter. 

It is supposed that the Five Nations were able to oppose this 
marauding band by not less than five thousand warriors, poorly 
armed with bow and hatchet, formidable weapons in warfare 
against Indians, but of small account against the weapons used 
by Spaniards. Ignorance, of course, existed upon both sides as 
to the arms to be used. The Spanish band could not remain 
long in their fortified position. Food and water would soon 
become exhausted, and they resolved to cut their way out. The 
multitude of Indians assembled knew these marauders as 
*' Espanas," at this time a name hateful to them bv reason of the 
cruelties practiced upon their tributary tribes in Florida and 
Georgia. Armed as this band was, with weapons of warfare 
unknown and superior to those of the Indians, it was not un- 
reasonable to suppose they might cut their way through, but the 
vast superiority of the Indian force more than balanced the 
inequality of arms, and not a Spaniard was spared. The slaugh- 
ter of the Indians, however, was frightful. Probably not less 
than one, or perhaps two thousand fell. So frightful was the 
slaughter that the hill was called the " Espana," and the early 
pioneer reports that the Indians found remaining in the locality 
had a dread of the hill, and could never be induced to ascend it, 
a tradition existing among them that a powerful spirit inhabited 
the hill, fatal to an)"^ Indian who should venture to ascend it. Con- 
firming this theory is the fact that in the year 1865, a flood in the 
Susquehanna, greater than had been known by any one living 
upon its banks, tore away a bank on the border of a meadow 
that had been undisturbed from the earliest period — then nearly 
a century — and exposed a rude boat, thirty feet in length by four 
feet in breadth, and three feet in height, formed by crude planks 
cut by broad-axes, and fastened by wooden pins. In short, 
exactly such a boat as would have been constructed by a maraud- 



TOWN OF BARTON. 75 

ing band for transportation of necessaries, such as indicated by 
this Spanish force. The writer* was informed by James Hanna, 
a pioneer of the valley, in 1816, and a notable hunter, that he 
found a bayonet with Spanish inscriptions, at the base of Spanish 
hill, but that his sons caused the bayonet to be made into a spear 
ior fishing, and so the valuable testimonial was lost. 

The intelligent reader will receive the foregoing theory at its 
just value, and until a better theory is found, this must remain 
unquestioned. 

Settlement and Growth. — The first to settle in the town of Bar- 
Ion and make for themselves and their posterity homes among 
the giant pines that thickly covered its valleys, were Ebenezer 
Ellis and Stephen Mills, who, in 1791, settled near liie mouth of 
Ellis creek. 

Ebenezer Ellis came from Fort)^ Fort, near Wyoming, in 1787, 
making his way up the Susquehanna in a canoe. He first located 
in the present town of Nichols, upon what is known as the old 
^'Samuel Walker" farm. He remained there until 1791, when 
he came into Barton. His cause for the move and again making 
a clearing in the forest, we are unable to explain. Here he first 
■settled upon the farm afterwards owned by John Hanna, with 
whom he subsequently traded for a farm at the mouth of Ellis 
•creek, making the exchange for the purpose of gaining control 
•of the water privilege and building a saw-mill. This exchange 
was made not long after the settlement, and most historic accounts 
have erroneously stated that upon this latter farm he made the 
first settlement. He had thirteen children, among whom were 
''\Samuel, Jesse, Cornie, Abigail, William and Alexander. The 
latter was the first white male child born in the town. He mar- 
ried Betsey Saunders, by whom he had twelve children, viz.: Ira 
D., Char les B ., Zeno W., who died in infancy, Solon S., who 
•died at the age of four years, Nancy, Sarah, wife of Robert 
' Fitzgerald, Christopher S., Nelson A.; Lewis B., Cyrus, Char- 
lotte M., wife of Nathan Saunders, and Hiram. William married 
Lydia, daughter of Israel Seeley, of Orange county, N, Y., by 
whom he had thirteen children, viz.: William, Fanny, who died 
in infancy, John, of Geneva, 111., Sela, of EUistown, Amanda, 
wife of Charles Pemberton, Sally, wife of Henry Swartwood, 
of Kansas, Ransom, Lydia, Charlotte, wife of James Parker, 
and Elizabeth. Two others died in infancy. Charles B. married 



*Hon. W. F. Warner, of Waverly. 



76 TOWN OF BARTON. 

Elizabeth Maria, daughter of Robert Curtis, by whom he has two 
children, viz.: J. Addison, and F. Leontine. J. Addison married 
Alice, daughter of George Edgcomb. Gilbert S., son of Sela, 
married Amanda, daughter of Robert Curtis, by whom he has 
had three children, viz.: Harvey W., who died in infancy, Arthur 
C, and Eddie M., who died in infancy. 

Stephen Mills, originally from Connecticut, also first located in 
Nichols, moving to Barton about the same time as Mr. Ellis. He 
was a revolutionary soldier, and became a pensioner under the 
act of 1832. His son Lewis married Elizabeth, daughter of John 
Hanna, by whom he had three children : Miama, widow of Syl- 
vanus Wright, William G., of this town, and John, of Athens, 
Pa. William G., married Susan, daughter of John O. ShakeUon, 
by whom he has had eierht children, viz.: Charles, Ehzabeth 
(Mrs. Cornelius Case), Charlotte (Mrs. Spencer Brougham), 
Augusta (Mrs. Thurlow Gale), Wilson, Theodore, Adolphus and 
Anna. 

About this time also(i79i) Benjamin Aikens settled where the 
village of Barton now is. He owned a tract of goo acres, of which 
Gilbert Smith afterwards became the purchaser. These pioneers 
were joined by John Hanna, Ezekiel Williams, Luke Saunders, 
Samuel Ellis, and James Swartwood, all of whom were here 
previous to 1795. 

John Hanna was born in Scotland, and when a boy came to- 
this country, working his passage as a servant to the captain of 
the vessel in which he sailed. He landed at Philadelphia, and 
soon made his way up to Nescopeck Falls, Pa. Here he subsequent- 
ly engaged in the distillery business, losing heavily owing to the 
depreciation in value of Continental money. Here also he married 
Margaret McCuUoch, who came from the same town in Scotland 
as himself, though they were not acquainted with each other there. 
After his business failure at Nescopeck Falls, he came to this- 
town, and purchased a farm at the mouth of Ellis creek. He sub- 
sequently purchased of Peter C. Lorillard, of New York city, a 
thousand acres of land in the locality known as " EUistown,'' the 
original deed of which .is now in the possession of Mr. J. E. Hal- 
let, of Waverly. It is told that at stated periods he used to ga 
on horseback to New York with gold in a saddle-bag to make pay- 
ments on his land. Their first habitation here was a log house, 
which had only an earth floor, and there being no saw-mill he wa& 
obliged to split planks from pine logs and hew them smooth for 
flooring. He had no threshing floor, so was obliged to keep his- 



TOWN OF BARTON. ■ ^^ 



grain until winter and thresh it on the ice of a little pond on his 
premises. For salt he had to travel to Horseheads, following an 
Indian trail and returning with only half a bushel at a time, which 
he :was expected to share with his neighbors. During the cold 
summer of 1816, people were for months without bread, and sub- 
sisted chiefly on "greens," made from various herbs and plants. 
Mr. Hanna cut rye while it was yet in the milk, dried it on sticks 
laid across a kettle of live coals, and in this way succeeded in pre- 
paring for mill half a bushel of grain. When it returned to 
them and they had made their first bread from it. their neighbors 
were invited in to feast on the "luxury." Mr. Hanna's first loca- 
tion he did not occupy long, as he had an opportunity to ex- 
change with Ebenezer Ellis as we have stated, who owned the 
farm just north of the one now owned and occupiecfby John G. 
Hill. Mr. Hanna's barn was the first frame building ever raised 
in the town, and in it convened the first Methodist quarterly meet- 
ing held here. His sturdy Scotch qualities made him invaluable 
in those early times, and the noble qualities of his heart were 
evinced in the acts of his daily life. His home for many years 
was the stopping place of itinerant preachers, and, until a more 
convenient place was provided, people for many miles round met 
at his house for public worship. Mr. Hanna was also a veteran 
of the revolution. He died at the great age of 102 years. Mr. and 
Mrs. Hanna were the parents of nine children, as follows : John, 
Nancy, wife of John Swartwood, and afterward the wife of John 
Shoemaker, Jane, wife of Joseph Swain, of Chemung, William, 
Margaret, wife of Elisha Hill, Betsey, wife of Lewis Mills, 
George, Sally, wife of Squire Whitaker, and Martha wife of 
Joseph G. Wilkinson. William married hrst a Miss Saunders. 
His second wife was Jane, daughter of Isaac Raymond, by whom 
he had eight children, viz. : William, Edward, Stella, wife of 
Thaddeus Ellis, George, Adelbert, Frederick, Maud, wife of 
Arthur Fitch, of Arkansas, and Emmet, who died at the age of 
nine years. George married Stella, daughter of Jonathan Catlin, 
of Tiog^,, by whom he has one child, Earl, born September 13, 
1882. John, Jr., married Deborah, daughter of John Hyatt, by 
whom he had four children, viz. : Mary, wife of William T. Ellis, 
Sally, wife of David C. Lyons, of Wisconsin, Julia, wife of D. 
B. Horton, of Owego, and Ira, of this town. The latter married 
Martha A., daughter of Daniel Park, of Nichols, by whom he had 
four children, viz, : Charles F., of Barton, Sarah, Leonora and Ida 
L. Leonora married J. E. Merritt, of Athens, Pa., and has four 



78 TOWN OF BARTON. 



children, — Lena, Orrin, Ray and Ralph. Charles F. married 
Hattie, daug^hter of Lewis Crotsley, of Barton, by whom he has 
four children, born as follows : Celia, November i8, 1873 ; Louis, 
July 20, 1S76; Homer, June 12, 1879 ; and Myra, May 7, 1885. 

Luke Saunders came from Connecticut. He married Sarah 
Dewey, by whom he had eight children, viz.: Sarah, wife of 
Beriah Lewis, Parish, Jabez, Nathan, Betsey, wife of Alexander 
Ellis, Christopher, Nancy, wife of William Hanna, and Robert. 
Parish married Barbara, daughter of Ebenezer Ellis, by whom 
he had five children, viz.: Lucinda, widow of Thomas F. John- 
son, Hiram, deceased, John, Benjamin and William. 

James Swartwood came from Delaware. He had a family of 
nine children, viz.: Mary, wife of Isaac Shoemaker, Martha, 
wife of Benjamin Smith, Sarah, wife of Joseph Langford, Katie, 
wife of Baskia Jones, Benjamin, James, Jacob, John and Eben- 
ezer. Benjamin married Catherine, daughter of Ezekiel Williams, 
by whom he had nine children, namely, James, Ezekiel, Martha, 
wife of Luther Goodenow, John, Benjamin, Harriet, wife of 
Robert Light, Lydia, wife of Adam VanAtta, William and 
Mary. Ezekiel married Margaret A. VanAtta, by whom he has 
had two children, Nancy, widow of John Harding, and John M., 
who died in his twenty-second year. 

In 1796 John Shepard purchased of General Thomas, of West- 
chester county, one thousand acres of land, at five dollars per 
acre, extending along the state line, from Shepard's creek at 
Factoryville, near the fifty-ninth mile-stone, to the sixtieth mile- 
stone; thence across the north end of Spanish hill, to the Chemung 
river, and from the " narrows " across the mountain beyond Shep- 
ard's creek ; thence down the state line again. This embraced 
the present villages of Waverly and Factoryville, and many fine 
localities back of these villages. Large portions of this territory 
are still retained in ^he possession of the Shepard family. 

Among the early settlers on Cayuta creek were Charles Bing- 
ham, Layton Newell, Lyon C. Hedges, Philip Crans, Justus 
Lyons, John Manh'art, and Moses alnd Elisha Leonard. These 
families were principally from New England, and were among 
the most industrious and worthy people of the town, and many 
of their descendants now reside in that valley, particularly at 
" Lockwood," which long bore the name of " Bingham's Mills," 
in honor of this pioneer family. 

Among the early settlers of Barton village, other than those 
already mentioned, were William Bensley, George W. Buttson, 



TOWN OF BARTON. 79 

who early built a saw-mill upon the stream which bears his name, 
John Hyatt, Eliphalet Barden, Benajah Mundy, Samuel Mundy, 
Peter Barnes, Peter Hoffman and Selah Payne. 

Wilham Bensley came, originally, from Smithfield, Wayne 
(now Pike) county. Pa. He removed to this town May lO; 1803, 
and settled on the farm now owned by John Park, on the river 
road, about one mile west of Barton village. This place was 
retained in the Bensley family for upwards of eighty years, it 
having first been owned by John Bensley, brother of William. 
William Bensley married Mary, daughter of Isaac Bunnell, by 
whom he had nine children, viz.: Gershom, John, Daniel, Henry, 
Eleanor (Mrs. Richard Shoemaker), Elizabeth (Mrs. Charles B. 
Smith), Anna, who died in infancy, Mary A. (Mrs. James Brink), 
and Sarah (Mrs. Daniel Van Gorder). Mr. Bensley was a weaver 
by trade, but followed, to a considerable extent, lumbering and 
farming. Henry married Betsey Brink, by whom he had six 
children, three of whom arrived at maturity, viz.: Mary, wife of 
Frank Kelley, of Athens, Pa., John, of Nichols, and Archibald, 
■deceased. John married Lucy Wrigley, by whom he has had 
six children, viz.: Henry, deceased, Leora, wife of James Davi- 
son, Frederick, Arthur and John, Jr, Daniel married Lucina 
P. Felt, of Potter county. Pa., by whom he had four children, 
viz.: Elliott L., who lives on the homestead, Charles and Daniel, 
who died in infancy, and Bertha L. Elliott L. married Mary E., 
daughter of John Westfall, of Chemung, by whom he has two 
children, Gertie, born October 8, 1880, and Nellie, born Decem- 
ber I, 1884. 

Charles Bingham left the Wyoming Valley at the time of the 
Indian massacre there, and with his family was obliged to steal 
his way by night, in Durham boats, in order to escape the sav- 
ages. In their first settlement they were so troubled by Indians 
that he returned to Wilkesbarre. The year following, he came 
again and settled near Spanish hill. Here they were afflicted with 
small-pox and lost one or two children. They then removed 
north, up,Shepard's creek about six miles, and settled on the farm 
now owned by E. Van Buren. The great inducement for him to 
settle there was the growth of maple trees in that vicinity, maple 
sugar being about the only thing then marketable. His sons were 
John, Ebenezer, Jonathan and Charles, Jr. His daughters were 
Anna, who married a Mr. Drake, Margurite, who married a Mr. 
Hedges, and Sarah, who married a Mr. Sanford. , Charles, Jr., 
built a mill at Lockwood, upon the site where the Bingham 



8o TOWN OF BARTON. 



Brothers mills now are, and it was among the first in this section 
built on Shepard's creek. He married Anna M., daughter of 
David Davis, by whom he had six children, viz. : Mary J., wife of 
Bernard Campbell, of St. Croix county Wis., Jefferson, of Wa- 
verly, Ann E., wife of Rev. La Fayette Ketchum, of Owego, 
George W. and Edmund J., of Lockwood, and David T., deceased; 
George W. married Mary A. Inhoff, of Marietta, Pa., by whom 
he has had ten children, viz. : Jessie D., Fred, Helen and Mary 
(twins) who died in infancy, Clara, Joseph, Robert, deceased, 
Mary A., George and Harry. Edmund J. married Libbie K. 
Baldwin, of Chemung,, by whom he has five children, Addie L., 
James B., Marion, Arthur and Laura A. 

David Davis settled first in the Catskill region, afterward in 
Greene, Chenango county. His son Samuel H. married Minerva 
Barnes, of this town, by whom he had two children, viz.: Mary 
M. and Hannah A., the latter the wife of Eugene Van Buren, 
who resides on the homestead. Their children are Lena T. and 
Pearl. Samuel Davis was a blacksmith by trade, but was also 
engaged in lumbering and farming. 

Sutherland Tallmadge came from Schaghticoke, Schoharie 
county, N. Y., very early in the history of this county and set- 
tled on the farm now owned by Mr. Elliot, and occupied by 
Tallmadge Hulett. His brother Franklin settled on the farm now 
owned by James Sliter. The locality is still known as Tallmadge 
hill. 

Charles B. Smith, son of Jonas, was born in Sheshequin, Pa., 
in 1814. His mother died when he was but four years of age, and 
he came to this town to live with the Bensley family. He married 
Elizabeth, daughter of William Bensley, by whom he had one son, 
Rushton. The latter married first, Ellen Bunnell, bv whom he 
has one child, lone, wife of Lewis Mills, of Sayre. His pres- 
ent wife is Katie, daughter of H. V. Kinner, of South Waverly. 

Elisha Hill was born in Connecticut, May 4, 1793. About 18 18 
he came from Plainfield, or Hartford, Conn., to Bradford county, 
Pa., with all his possessions tied in a pack which he carried across 
his shoulder. He remained there two years, when he returned 
to Connecticut, and brought back with him his brother Caleb. In 
1821 he removed to this town and located on the farm now owned 
and occupied by his son, John G. He was a soldier irxUie^ar of 
1812, and served at Black Rock and other points. He married 
Margaret, daughter of John Hanna, who was born December 16, 
1798, and by whom he had iwe- children, born as follows : John 

la 



TOWN OF BARTON. 8 1 



Griffin, September 17, 182 1 ; Philomela, wife of Alanson Welton, 
of Factoryville, May 7, 1823; Sarah, February 26, 1826; Hannah, 
July 28, 1828 ; Elizabeth, wife of Joseph Park, of Nichols, Sep- 
tember, 26, 1831 ; and Tabitha J., wife ot Montgomery Mead, of 
Waverly, August 26, 1837. John G. married Elizabeth, daughter 
of David Boardman Cure of this town. Elisha Hill died Sep- 
tember 20, 1864, and Mrs. Hill died September 4, 1880. Caleb 
Hill married Eunice Durphy, of Smithfield, Pa., by whom he 
had live children, viz. : Erastus, a member of the legislature of 

the state of Missouri; Polly, wife of Davis, deceased ; Alonzo, 

a physician of Maiden, Mo., Hon. David B., the, present gover- 
nor of the state of New York, and Sarah, deceased. 

Salmon Johnson was born in Vermont, near Lake Champlain, 
and at an early day came to this town, locating at "^Ulstown." 
His son, Thomas Floyd, married Lucinda, daughter of Parish and 
Barbara (Ellis) Saunders, by whom he had five children who 
arrived at maturity, viz.: Barbara (Mrs. William Weller), D. 
Jane (Mrs. Edward Tozer), Sarah (Mrs. Oscar F. Burke), Cyrus, 
and Emma L,, (Mrs. Charles Parker). Salmon Johnson moved to 
the state of Ohio,' where he died. 

Peter Bogart, or " Van de Bogart," as the name was originally 
written, came from Princetown, now in Schenectady county, N. 
Y., about the beginning of the present century, and settled in 
Tompkins county, between Ithaca and Newfield, on the farm now 
known as the Crawford farm, and in 1825 removed to this town, 
and located on the farm now owned by Cornelius Harding. He 
married, first, Betsey Hunter, and they had children as follows : 
Michael, Catherine (Mrs. Joseph Joyce), John, Eva (Mrs. Jesse 
Bailey), Joseph, Mindred, Betsey (Mrs". Casper Lampman), Folly 
(Mrs. Samuel Ford), Jane (Mrs. Edward Sherwood), Fanny (Mrs. 
David Johnson) James, and two or three who died in infancy. 
He married second, Maria, daughter of Samuel Gray, of Tomp- 
kins county,. by whom he had thirteen children, viz.: Sarah (Mrs. 
E. Foster), Jeremiah, Peter, Caroline (Mrs. Henry Lounsberry), 
Charles, who died at the age of twenty-five, William; Samuel, 
Loury, David, who died in infancy, George W., and Emma (Mrs. 
Andrew Nevin), of Boston, Mass. George W., married Amelia, 
daughter of Daniel Rogers, of Barton, by whom he has one son, 
G. Frederick. James married Lucinda, daughter of Robert Curtis, 
by whom he has had three children, viz.: Leonora (Mrs. John 
W. Morgan), Henry M., of Waverly, and Robert C, who died 
in October, 1878. John married Ruth, daughter of Nathaniel 



82 TOWN OF BARTON. 



Bailey, of Tompkins county, by whom he had nine children, viz.: 
Peter V., Charlotte (Mrs. Alanson Williams), Nathaniel, Elijah, 
who died at the age of four years, James, Joseph, John, and Ira 
J., who died at the age of five years. Peter V., married first, 
Matilda Williams, by whom he had one child, Merritt Delos. His 
present wife was Sarah A. Dailey, by whom he has had two chil- 
dren, Olive, who died at the age of nine years, and Orpha Eve- 
line, wife of Guy V. Spear, who has two children, born as fol- 
lows : Anna, February i8, 1882, and Clyde, December 28, 1883. 
Mr. P. V. Bogart has dealt largely in real estate, having owned 
at one time eight hundred acres. He has been engaged princi- 
pally in lumbering and farming. Peter Bogart, Sr., died Novem- 
ber 16, 1857, aged ninety-three years. 

Abial F. Hill came from Deer Park, Orange county, N. Y.; in 
1814, and located on the farm now owned by Ira Hill, on the 
Shepard's creek road. He married Francis Burns, by whom he 
had seven children, viz.: Anna Jane, (Mrs. Thomas Shelp), S. 
Maria (Mrs. Freeman Shelp), deceased, Mary A., (Mrs. Ira G. 
Hill), Mahala, second wife of Freeman Shelp, Charles M., de- 
ceased, Adaline, wife of Joseph Quackenbush, deceased, and 
Arminda, widow of Stephen Clearwater. 

Freeman Shelp came from Montrose, Pa., very early in the 
history of Tioga county, and was engaged in driving stage from 
Towanda, Pa., to Ithaca. By his second wife, S. Mahala, daugh- 
ter of Abial Hill, he had three children, viz.: Charles F., of 
Waverly, Francis M. (Mrs. Charles Hill), deceased, and Belle A. 
The latter married A. T. Andre, of Lockwood, and has one son. 
Freeman J. 

Joseph Bartron came from Meshoppen, Pa., and settled in 
Nichols, an the bank of the Susquehanna, at a place called Smith's 
Mills, where he worked, being by trade a mill-wright. He re- 
moved to this town in 1821, and cleared the farm now owned by 
his son Joseph. He built the first saw-mill on Butts.on creek, for 
Gilbert Smith. The mill was located about where the Erie rail- 
road now crosses the creek. He married Betsey Place, who bore 
him eight children, viz.: James, Eliza (Mrs. Morris Walker), 
Anna (Mrs. Jonathan Rolf), Moses, Delila, widow of Daniel 
Graves, Chloe (Mrs. Elijah VanGorder), Joseph, and John P. 
Joseph married Harriet, daughter of Gporge W. Johnson, who 
bore him nine children. 

I George W. Johnson came from Ithaca, N. Y., and located in 
this town. He married Betsey Severn, by whom he had thirteen 



TOWN OF BARTON. »3 



children, vi2 : Abram, John, Charles, Amyette, Jane, Matilda^ 
Elvira, Julius, Harriet, Washington, Josiah, James, and Cynthia, 

John married Jane, daughter of James Garrett, of Tioga. 

Eliphalet Barden was born in Connecticut, and after his mar- 
riage came to Greene, Chenango county, N, Y., and in 1821 
removed to this town, and settled on the farm now owned by 
Francis Giltner. He married Miriam Priest, by whom he had 
eight children, two only of whom are livmg, Freelove, wife of 
N. W. Schoonover, and Zalmon, who resides on road 39. The 
latter married Mary A., daughter of William Todd, of Tioga, 
and they have had four children, viz.: Charles E., of Tonawanda, 
N. Y., Freelove L., wife of William Holt, of Tioga, William M., 
who died at the age of eight years, and Mary E., wife "of Frank 
Harding, of this town. ♦ 

John Parker settled in Ellistown, at an early date. He mar- 
ried Lizzie Ellis, by whom he had seven children, viz.: Fred- 
erick, Henry, Clark, James, Hiram, Caroline, and Abby. James 
married Charlotte, daughter of William Ellis, who bore him 
eight children — Frances, Albenia, Genervy, Charles, Mattie, 
Christina, Mack, and Hermeone. 

John W. Van'Atta was born November i, 1782, and came from 
Rockburg, Warren county, N. J., about 1827, and located on the 
farm now owned by A. J. Van Atta, on road 52. He married 
Elizabeth Albright, who was born August 16, 1787, and by whom 
he had eleven children, born as follows: Peter, July 28, 1810; 
Margaret, November 21, 1811; Adam, November t8, 1813 ; 
William, February i, 1816; Benjamin, June 6, 1818 ; Caroline, 
June 19, 1821 ; Sarah, July 15, 1823 ; Isaac, July 22, 1826; Aza- 
riah J., December 15, 1827 ; and Rebecca M., December 11, 1832. 
Peter married Fanny J., daughter of Reuben Harding, by whom 
he had two sons,, Oscar H., and Clarence, of this town. Peter 
and Benjamin were musicians in the old state militia. 

Shaler ShLpman was born in Connecticut, April 21, 1800, 
and came to this town in 1829, settling first on the farm now 
owned by P. G. Schuyler, arid then removed to the one now 
occupied by Adam Albright, where he resided until his death. 
He built two saw-mills, and was engaged in lumbering and farm- 
ing during most of his life. That section of the town, about the 
geographical center, is commonly called Shipman Hollow. He 
married first, Melinda Speer, by whom he had ten children, born 
as follows: Prosper, March 2. 1829; Lucy A., October 11, 1830; 

. Abram, Septembfr 27, 1832; Rachel, June 10, 1834; Philip H., 



84 TOWN OF BARTON. 



March 5, 1836; Stephen, April 27, 1838; Susan M", March 25, 
1840; Rufus T., October 23, 1841; George W., September 25, 
1844; and Harvey D., August 21, 1847. His seccftid wife, Bar- 
bara (Bowman) Hunt, bore him four children, viz.: Perlie E., 
January 24, 1868; Shaler B., January 26, 1869; Orrilla M., 
January 4, 1871 ; Ada M., August 8, 1876. Mr. Shipman died 
December 24, 1878. Rufus T. Shipman enlisted October i, 1861, 
in Co. H, loth N. Y. Cavalry, and served until August 14, 1862. 
when he re-enlisted in Co. B, 6th N. Y. Heavy Artillery, and 
served until September 14, 1865. He married Frances, daugh- 
ter of Asa Doty, who has borne him three children — Ella A., 
born November 2, 1866, died August 5, 1874; Isaac D., born 
March 29, 1873 ; and Cleveland, born March 8, 1885, died March 
24, 1885. 

James N. Harding, son of Charles, was born near Montgom- 
er}', Orange county, N. Y., and in 1833 came to this town and 
located on Tallmadge Hill, upon the farm now occupied by his 
son, C. N. Harding. He married Susan Tenne^', and reared five 
children, viz.: Gilbert, Horace T., Clara, Charles E., and Cor- 
nelius N. Horace T. married Ehzabeth, daughter of Jacob 
Swain, of Chemung, by whom he has had eight children, viz.: 
C. Willis,. Theodore M., Fred, Charley, Bert, Mamie, Arthur, 
and Ella, who was born October 7, 1878. C. Willis married Nel- 
lie, daughter of H. Burt, and has two daughters, Grace and 
Ethel. Theodore M., married Nettie, daughter of George Edg- 
comb, and has one child, Marion. Charles E. married Julia E., 
daughter of Galaliel Bowdish, of Montgomery county, N. Y., 
and has had four children, viz.: James O., Robert E., Charles 
L., and George A. 

John Harding, son of Reuben, came with his parents from the 
town of Minisink, Orange county, N. Y., when he was about six 
years of age. He married Nancy, daughter of Ezekiel Swartwood, 
rearing two children, Amelia H., wife of Rev. F. P. Doty, of 
Thompson, Pa., and Frank, who resides on the homestead. The 
latter married M. Ella, daughter of Zalmon Barden, of this town. 
Reuben Harding settled on Tallmadge Hill, on the farm now oc- 
cupied by Elliott Harding. 

James Madison Sliter, son of Peter, was born in Coeymans, 
Albany county, N. Y., September 11, 1815. When three years 
of age his parents removed to Guilford, Chenango county, where 
they remained two years, and then removed to Bainbridge, N.Y., 
where he resided until November i, 1834, when he came to this 



TOWN OF BARTON. 85 



town and has since resided here. He purchased first some tim- 
ber property and afterward the farm now owned by Orson Dick- 
erson. On April 30, 1839, he married Elizabeth A., daughter of 
Rev. Henry Ball, a Baptist minister of this town. In 1842 he re- 
moved to his present home. They had born to them nine chil- 
dren, — S. Emily, Jefferson B., of Athens, Pa., inventer of the 
Bonner scroll wagon-spring, Clarissa, Alice, wife of Harrison 
Lewis, Anna, wife of Frank W. Phillips, of Waverly, Estell, Julia, 
Katie, wife of Marshall Brown, and Eveline G., wife of Amos 
Harding. Mrs. Sliter died June 10, 1886. 

David Boardman Cure came from Hector, Schuyler county, 
N. Y., about 183s, and located on Hector Hill, upon the farm now 
owned by John Brewster, where he purchased one hundred and 
fifty acres of land. He married, first, Achsa Hubbell, by whom 
he had three children, Jackson, Adliza and Phidelia. His second 
wife was Maria Shipman, by whom he had seven children, viz.: 
Elizabeth, David E., Sarah, Amos, James, Franklin E. and 
Delphine. 

Sheldon Morgan, son of Theodore, a Quaker, of Horseheads, 
N.Y., married Abigail, daughter of Samuel and Abigail (Stephens) 
Warner. They had ten children born to them, viz.: Francis, 
November 22, 1833, died December 6, 1835 ; Charles H., of Wells- 
borough, Pa.; George B., of Waverly; William W., who was killed 
at the battle of Lookout Mountain, May i, 1864; Frances A., born 
October 17, 1843, and died April 27, 1866; Theodore T., August 
7, 1846, served four years in the Union army, was for nine months 
a prisoner in Andersonville, died February 3, 1874; John W., a 
member of Co. I, 109th N. Y. Vols., now of Waverly, born Janu- 
ary 27, 1849 ; Joseph S., February 11, 1852, of East Waverly, and 
Calvin P., May 15, 1855, now of Parsons, Kas. John W. married 
Nora W., daughter of James Bogart of the town of Barton. 
Frederick S. Morgan, a member of Co. H., 109th N. Y. Vols., en- 
listed August 3, 1863, and was mustered out July 21,1865; 
was wounded in the battle of Spottsylvania, May 12, 1864. He mar- 
ried Emma R., daughter of Enos Genung, March 23, 1871, and 
by whom he has three children. Bertha D., Howard and Harry G. 

Daniel J. Lum, son of Lyman, was born in New Berlin, N. Y., 
May 26, 1821, and in 1840 came to Factoryville, where he re- 
mained about six months and then removed to Tioga Center, 
where he engaged in lumbering and farming for about twenty 
years. He returned to Factoryville in 1874, and from thence 
removed to Waverly, where he has since resided. He married 



86 TOWN OF BARTON. 



Orpha W., daughter ot Rev. Henry Primrose, September 3, 1845. 
Four children were born to them : William Durella, October 19, 
1846, died in Harewood Hospital, Washington, D. C, June 13-, 
1864; Mary T.. October 14, 1848 ; Henry E., September 25, 18.53, 
died June 15, 1878; and Mattie Captola, June 27, i860. Mr. 
Lum enlisted December 21, 1863, in Co. A, 14th Heavy Artillery, 
N. Y. Vols., and also on the same date his son William Durella 
enlisted in the same regiment and company, but was afterward 
transferred to the 6th N. Y. Heavy Reserves. Mary T. married 
Melvin J. Baker, February 4, 1871, and there have been born to- 
them three children, — Ola Corrinne, April 21, 1875, died April 
13, 1879; Myron Elmer, February 6, 1877, died April 18, 1879; 
and Edwin Durella, born September 29, 1880. 

John Solomon came from Orange county, N. Y., about 1840, 
and located on West Hill, upon the farm owned by Mr. Kennedy. 
He married Phoebe Valentine, by whom he had six children— 
Maria, John V., George, Sarah, WiUiam, and Catheriue Louise. 
John V. married Ann Amelia, daughter of B. O. Van Cleft, by 
whom he has one daughter, Carrie, wife of Horace Steward. 

Jacob Andre, son of George, came from Sussexshire, England, 
when he was eighteen years of age, and settled first in Delaware 
county, where he married Deborah, daughter of Sterling Hub- 
bell, of Delhi. In 1844 he came to this town and settled on the 
farm now owned by George Georgia, which he cleared. His 
children were Isaac, of Factory ville ; Jacob N., of Montrose, Pa.; 
William, deceased ; A. T., of Lockwood ; George, of Factory- 
ville ; John H., of this town ; Newton, deceased; and Angehne, 
wife of Charles Smith, of Waverly. 

Lewis Mulock, son of William and Rebecca (Seybolt) Mulock, 
was born in Mount Hope, N. Y., November 11, 1808. He mar- 
ried Mary, daughter of Peter Corwin, in 1832. About 1850 he 
came into this county and located on Tallmadge Hill, where he 
engaged in farming for several years. His children are Theo- 
dore, now of Athens, Pa.; Albert; Angeline, wife of Jacob Cole- 
man ; Gabriel, of Waverly ; Mary A., wife of Rev. A. B. Scutt 
Coe, of Lancaster, Pa.; and Corwin, of Waverly. For the pur- 
pose of securing for his children superior educational advantages, 
Mr. Mulock removed to Waverly when his family was youno-, 
and has since resided there. He has been a justice of the peace 
here two terms of four years each. 

Thomas B. Hunt was born in Cooperstown, N. Y., October 23, 
1830, came to this town in 1851, and afterward purchased a farm 



TOWN OF BARTON. ^/ 



in Smithboro. He married Barbara, daughter of Absalom Bow- 
man, by whom he had two children: Sanford E., born Septem- 
~Ber 13, 1857, died in 1859, and William W., of this town, born 
December 17, i860. 

Allen LaMont, son of David, was born in Schoharie county, 
N. Y., June 22, 1825, and at an early age came to Tioga Center, 
where he was engaged in lumbering during his early years. In 
1860 he came to Waverly and purchased a farm on the Shepard's 
creek road, engaging also in the produce business in Waverly 
village, during the latter years of his life in partnership with 
S. D. Barnum. He married Mary, daughter of Amos Canfieid^ 
of Tioga, by whom he had two daughters, Grace and Ellen. He 
died February 28, 1884. 

Jacob D. Besemer, son of James, was born in Caroline, N. Y.,. 
in 1820. He married Harriet, daughter of Daniel Vorrhis, by 
whom he had five children, viz.: Kate, wife of William Frisbie; 
Daniel V.; James, and George of this town; and Annie, wife of 
S. Hubbell, deceased. Mr. Besemer came to this town and 
located on the farm now owned by his son Daniel V. The latter 
married Delphine A. Hubbell, by whom he has two children — 
Gracie J., born December 11, 1878, and Reed V., born August 
11,1881. 

Dr. Ezra Cantield, son of Amos, was born on the homestead in 
Smithboro, February 13, 1854. He received his early education, 
there and at Waverly and Binghamton. He entered the office 
of Dr. O. A. Jakway, of Breesport, N. Y., and that of his brother,. 
Dr. Enos Canfield, of VanEttenville. He graduated from the 
Medical University of New York City in 1879. His first location 
was at VanEttenville, where he remained until 1882, when he 
came to.Lockwood, where he has since practiced. He married 
Emma, daughter of Bishop Kline, of AUentown, Pa., in 1874. 

The comparative growth of the town may be seen by the fol- 
lowing citation of the census reports for the several enumerations 
.since its organization: 1825, 585; 1830,972; 1835, 1,496; 1845, 
2,847; 1850,3,522; 1855,3.842; 1860,4,234; 1865, 4,077; 1870, 
5,087: 1875, 5,944; 1880, 5,825. 

Initial Events.— ^benezGT Ellis built the first house, harvested, 
the first crops, and his son Alexander was the first white child 
born here. The old brick church in Factoryville, now occupied 
by the Old School Baptist Society, was the first brick building 
erected. Elias Walker built the first tavern. The first postoffice 
was established at Factoryville, in 1812, and Isaac Shepard was 



88 TOWN OF BARTON. 



the first postmaster. Deacon Ephraim Strong was the firsi 
teacher. He was a gentleman of culture, and, in addition tc 
teaching his own large family taught the children of his neigh- 
bors in his own house. The Emery Chapel (Methodist Episcopal^ 
at EUistown was the first church edifice erected. Ebenezer and 
Samuel Ellis built the first saw-mill, on Ellis creek. George 
Walker, Sr., erected the first grist-mill, in 1800, on Cayuta creek, 
at Factoryville. Josiah Crocker and John Shepard built a full- 
ing-mill on Cayuta creek, near the state line, in 1808, and Isaac 
and Job Shepard erected a woolen-mill near it, in 18 10. Dr. 
Prentice, from Connecticut, was the first physician, William 
■Giles the first lawyer, and Rev. Valentine Cook the first preacher. 
Organization. — The first town meeting was held at the house 
of Gilbert Smith, April 27, 1824, when the following officers were 
elected : Gilbert Smith, supervisor ; John Crotsley, town clerk ; 
Jonathan Batnes, A. H. Schuyler, and William Hanna, assessors ; 
William Crans, Frederick Parker, and John Giltner, commission- 
ers of highways; John Parker, constable and collector; John 
Hanna, jr., and Seeley Finch, overseers of the poor; Gilbert 
Smith, Eliphalet Barden, and Nathaniel Potter, commissioners 
of common schools ; James Birch, Ely Foster, Joseph Tallmadge, 
Samuel Mills, and Jonathan Barnes, inspectors of schools ; George 
W. Johnson, Abraham Smith, and Joseph Tallmadge, fence-view- 
ers ; John Hyatt and Joel Sawyer, poundmasters. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Waverly Village. — This village, one of the most important 
business centers in this section, and, next to Owego, the largest 
village in the county, has had a phenomenally rapid growth and 
prosperous business career ; for it is practically only since the 
completion of the Erie railroad, in 1849, that it has sprung into 
importance. 

Situated upon the east bank of the Chemung river, in the ex- 
treme southeastern corner of the county, surrounded by a delight- 
ful region of hill and valley, Waverly's location is extremely 
pleasant. While viewing its busy streets, its rows of business 
blocks, its manufactories, fine residences, and pleasantly shaded 
avenues, it is difficult to conceive that its site only a few years 
since was a cultivated farming region. But such is in reality the 
case. 

Among the early settlers and principal owners of what is now 



TOWN OF BARTON. 89 



the village site, was Isaac Shepard, whose father, in 1796, as pre- 
viously stated, bought 1,000 acres of land, at $S.ob per acre, em- 
bracing the sites of both Waverly and East Waverly, and much 
valuable territory north and south of these villages. In 18 19 
Deacon Ephraim Strong purchased 153 acres of this tract, a strip- 
nearly 100 rods wide, extending northward nearly through the 
center of the present village. The first house here was built by 
Mr. Strong, probably in that year, although it has been stated 
that it was built in 18 10. It was located near the site of Dr. 
Frederick M. Snook's residence, and apple trees now standing on 
Mr. Snook's place were planted by the deacon in those early 
days. 

In i82rthe Chemung turnpike (Chemung street) was laid out^ 
and in 1825 Isaac Shepard built the pioneer hotel of the place. - 
It stood on the site of the present Charles Shepard residence, on 
West Chemung street. In the following decade the number of 
settlers was greatly augmented. Owen Spalding, with his 
brother Amos, came in 1831. The latter occupied a small log 
house near the site of the present residence of Mrs. Harriet Tan- 
nery, until 1833, when he built what now constitutes the rear part 
of J. Dubois' house, opposite C. E. Merriam's residence, and 
moved into it. Owen Spalding occupied a plank-house on the 
present site of Dr. Snook's residence. This was probably the 
house built by Deacon Strong. In 1833 Mr. Spalding built a 
house on the site now occupied by Hon. R. A. Elmer's residence. 
This house was afterward removed to the southwest corner of 
Cherpung street and Pennsylvania avenue, where it now stands, 
and where Mr. Spalding died. 

In March, 1833, Joseph Hallet, Sr., came up from Orange 
county, and purchased of Valentine Hill, 100 acres of land near 
the present residence of J. E. Hallet, and extending northward 
from Chemung street, for which he paid $1,100.00. He was 
accompanied by his sons Gilbert H. and Joseph E. The latter 
settled upon the above mentioned farm, his house standing upon 
what is now Fulton street, between the present residences of Mrs. 
Fritcher and E. G. Tracy. At that time there were but fifteen 
buildings in the place, namely : one hotel, one distillery, one 
blacksmith shop, one log dwelling, one plank dwelling, six small 
frame dwellings, and four barns. These were Isaac Shepard's 
hotel, Jacob Newkirk's distillery and dwelling, Thomas Hill's 
house, and another small house, all near the Shepard residence ; 
the dwelling of Elder Jackson, a Baptist minister, whose house 



go TOWN OF BARTON. 



stood just west of the present residence of W. F. Inman, and the 
Elder's blacksmith shop, which stood where now stands the 
Slaughter residence ; Amos Spalding's house, and Owen. Spald- 
ing's plank house, and the log house into which Gilbert Hallet 
moved, and O. Spalding's, Jackson's, Newkirk's, and Shepard's 
barns, the latter the large red barn now standing on Pine street, 
the only remaining land-mark of those early days. 

Gilbert Hallet moved into the log house vacated by Amos Spal- 
ding, and the following year built and removed into a house that 
stood where now stands H. L. Sto well's brick house. In the next 
year, 1835, he purchased Elder Jackson's house above referred to, 
together with forty-five acres of land, paying therefor $r,ooo,oo. 
This place and the one hundred acres bought by Joseph Hallet 
were purchased by Jackson and Hill, respectively, of Isaac Shep- 
ard. Three years prior to this time, Elder Jackson, who was very 
anxious to return to Orange county, had ofierered the place to 
Jesse Kirk for $500.00. The land lay south of Chemung street, 
the east line passing near E. J. Campbell's residence, southward 
through Slaughter & Van Atta's and E. G. Tracy's drug stores 
to the 6oth mile stone, thence west along the state line to the 
center of Dry brook, thence north, following the center of Dry 
brook to Chemung street, and west along Chemung street to the 
place of beginning, comprising what is now the business portion of 
the village. 

At this time Harris Murray lived in a small wooden house where 
''Murray's stone house" now stands, in South Waverly, and 
Mr. Murray offered to sell to Mr. Hallet one hundred acres there 
for $1,000.00. These sales illustrate how lightly the land in this 
valley was valued at that time. 

While these settlments were being made along the Chemung 
road, other pioneers were pushing on beyond and locating on the 
hill northwest of the village, now called " West Hill." 

This portion of the Susquehanna valley had been the scene of 
many forest fires, lighted either intentionally or carelessly by 
hunters, and had been so frequently burned over that but little 
save second growth pines remained, and this is said to have been 
the reason why many of the early pioneers refused to locate here, 
they thinking that land that would produce naught but "scrub 
pines " was of Httle valpe, and accordingly pushed on to the high- 
lands beyond, beheving that the heavy growth of timber there 
indicated a fertile and productive soil. 

Among those who settled there first, probably during the years 



TOWN OF BARTON. 9I 



1830-35. Piere Hyatt, Paris and Robert Sanders, David Carmi- 
chael, Jonathan Robins, G. W. Plummer,, Jacob Swain, Nathan 
Slawson, and Steven Van Derlip ; after these came Daniel Blizard, 
David Mandeville, Sr., Peter and Lewis Quick, S. T. Van Derlip, 
W. A. Lane, Jesse Kirk and others. Of these we believe none 
are now living and but few of their decendants remain on the old 
homesteads. 

Between the years 1837 and 1850 the number of settlers in the 
village increased rapidly, among the new comers being Captain 
Benjamin H. Davis, F. H. Baldwin, H. M. and W. E. Moore, 
Richard A. Elmer, Sr., and his sons Howard and Richard A., Jr., 
Jacob Reel, E. J. Brooks, J. A. Corwin, Sylvester Gibbons, R. 
O. Crandall, the first physician, Peter Wentz, the, first justice, 
George Beebe, the first lawyer, and many others. • 

The street running from Charles Sawyer's residfcnce on Che- 
mung street to the hotel at East Waverly, was laid out in 1835, 
and in 1843 Pennsylvania avenue was laid out south as far as the 
present residence of Levi Curtis, and in the same year Waverly 
street was opened down as far as the present Aplin residence. 
On the avenue Charles Howard built a house where Levi Curtis' 
residence now stands, Isaac Drake built one on the site of the 
Mrs. Bucklin residence, Milo Hulet built one where H. S. Butts' 
residence now stands, and Frank Sutton one on the corner of Penn- 
sylvania avenue and Park Place. The latter was torn down by 
Mr. Elmer, a iew years since. 

In 1842 G. H. Hallet and Andrew Price built a foundry on the 
northwest corner of Chemung and Waverly streets, where A. I. 
Decker's residence now stands. A short time afterwards Daniel 
Moore opened a cabinet shop in the second floor of this building. 
Later the foundry was changed into a hotel and bore the name 
of the Clarmont House. 

In 1843 J- E. Hallet built a house on Waverly street, for one of 
the employes of the foundry. This was the first house on the 
street. In the same year Edward Brigham built a hotel on the 
present site of the M. E. church, and Robert Shackelton built a 
store and dwelling house combined where now stands the Metho- 
dist parsonage. 

The first store was kept by Alva Jarvis, or " Squire Jarvis " as 
he was called, in the spring of 1841, in a wooden building between 
the sites of the present residences of Mrs. Fritcher and A. I. 
Decker. In the following fall G. H. Hallet opened a store just 
west of H. L. Stowell's present residence. 



gZ TOWN OF BARTON. 



In 1843 was begun the construction of the the Erie railroad, an 
event that proved a great impetus to the growth of the ham-" 
let, an impetus whose force is not yet expended. There were 
then here probly two or three hundred inhabitants. Poor manage- 
ment and other causes combined to retard the progress of work 
on the new railroad, and it was was not until 1849 ^^^^ ^^^ i"02d 
was completed. In the mean time Waverly Village was steadily 
growing. 

About the time the railroad was completed, Broad street was 
laid out, and cross-streets connecting Broad and Chemung streets 
quickly followed. Houses sprang up like magic on every side, 
and on Broad street there was a strife to see who should erect the 
first buildings and be the earliest to embark in business. 

The railroad passed through lands owned by Owen Spalding. 
Captain Davis and Isaac Shepard, and each gave the right of way- 
A part of the land given by Captain Davis was that on which the 
Erie buildings are now situated. The depot was built and opened 
about the time of the completion of the road, and was the first 
building in that part of the village. Mr. Ely was the first station 
agent, but was soon succeeded by J. S. Smith. While the depot 
was in process of erection, William Peck erected a small build- 
ing on the bank, a little west of where now stands the Warford 
House, and opened a saloon. Afterwards the building was en- 
larged, a basement built, to which the saloon was removed, and a 
general store opened on the ground floor. In 1855 or 1856, the 
building was again enlarged and converted into a hotel. It was 
first known as the Waverly House, and later as the Courtney 
House. During the year 1849, ^ little after Peck opened his 
saloon. Captain Davis built and opened a saloon and boarding- 
house between the Waverly House and the present site of the 
Warford House. A year or so later this building was enlarged 
to nearly double its original size, and opened as a hotel. It was 
afterward sold to Stephen Bennet, who for several years prior to 
this time, had been engaged in blacksmithing on West Chemung 
street. In the fall of 1856, Cyrus Warford bought the house, and 
in 1857 it was burnt down. The property was uninsured, and 
was a total loss to Mr. Warford. 

While the hotels were being built, several stores werein course 
of construction on Broad street, and in November William Gib- 
bons opened a store. Amos Spalding had erected a large wooden 
block on the site of the present brick block, and in this Hiram 
Moore opened a store about Christmas, and nearly the same time 



TOWN OF BARTON. 93 



T. J. Brooks opened the thifd store, and John A. Corbin the 
fourth store, the last three being in the Spalding Block. Follow- 
ing these, others were opened in quick succession. Isaac Shep- 
ard erected the Shepard Block, corner of Clark and Broad streets, 
and in the store now occupied by G. B. Witter, opened a dry 
goods store, while in the room now occupied by Gerould & Co., 
Charles Shepard and J. I. Reeve opened a hardware store and 
tin shop. In 1850 Hiram Moore built a foundry near the present 
site of Slawson's furniture store. This was afterwards changed 
into a saloon, and later into a hotel, and bore the name of the 
Central House. In this year John Hard opened a jewelry store, 
the first in the place. It was located where now stands Row- 
land's liquor store. 

With these buildings springing up so rapidly on Broad street, 
the parties who had opened stores on Chemung street discovered 
that they must get " down town " if they would secure a share of 
the business, and accordingly moved, not their goods alone, but 
their buildings also. Chamber's furniture store, that stood near the 
present site of W. F. Inman's residence, was moved to the cor- 
ner of Broad and Clark streets, and is now occupied by J. 
H. Hern as a grocery. George Hanna purchased G. H. Hallet's 
store, and moved it down near the present site of the Van Velsor 
Block, where it was occupied by Hiram Payne as a furniture 
store. Cyrus Warford had a store on the present site of Mrs. 
Orange's residence, and this he moved down and it is now oc- 
cupied by Nelson's harness store. 

In 1852, B. P. Snyder built the hotel for many years afterward 
known as the Snyder House, now called the Hotel Warford. In 
1855 Cyrus Warford purchased the house, and still owns it, 
although he retired from its management in 1873. 

The name Wavefly was not officially applied to the village 
until the year 1854. Until about 1840 or 1845, the little settle- 
ment on Chemung street was called " Villemont," a name given 
it by Isaac Shepard. After this the village was called by this 
name, " Waverley," " Loder," etc., to distinguish it from Factory- 
ville, until the final organization, in 1854. For several years after 
this even, the name was spelled " Waverley." Application for 
ineorporation was made December 12, 1853, and the question was 
put to a vote of the- citizens on the 18th of January following, 
which resulted in 114 votes for and forty-four against. The 
name Waverly was given at the suggestion of Mr. J. E. Halletj 
by whom it was borrowed from the immortal works of Sir 



94 TOWN OF BARTON. 

_j,j ^ 

Walter Scott. Several other names were proposed, among 
which were " Shepardsville," " Dayisville," and " Loder," the 
latter being in honor of Benjamin Loder, vice-president of the then 
recently completed railway. The first election of village officers 
was held, March 27, 1854, at which the following officers were 
elected, viz: Francis H. Baldwin, William Gibson, Hiram M. 
Moore, Peter Dunning, and Alva Jarvis, trustees ; Squire Whit- 
aker, John L. Sawyer, and B. H. Davis, assessors; William P. 
Owen, collector; Owen Spalding, treasurer; P. V. Bennett, 
cleric ; Morris B. Royall, Absalom Bowman, and W. A. Brooks, 
street commissioners; David E. Howell, poundmaster. . 

Captain Davis was the first postmaster, and received his ap- 
pointment in 1849, from President Fillmore. He kept the office 
for a short time in Cyrus Warford's store,, and afterwards in a 
small building adjoining " Squire " Jarvis' store on the west. This 
building he afterward moved down tp near the present site of the 
Commercial Hotel. In 1852 the Captain built the " Davis Block," 
the brick building now known as the Exchange Block, and re- 
moved the postoffice into it, in the store now occupied by H. M. 
Ferguson & Co. In 1852 the Democrats elected their first Presi- 
dent, Franklin Pierce, and on the principle that " to the victors 
belong the spoils," he appointed Squire Jarvis, a Democrat, to 
the position of postmaster, an office he held until 1861, when 
Abraham Lincoln appointed William PoUeys to succeed him. 

BIOGRAPAICAL. 

Dr. William E. Johnson was born near Port Jervis, N. Y., 
October 17, 1837; was educated in the common schools, prepared 
for college at Neversink academy, and graduated at the Albany 
Medical college, December 31, 1859. In 1862 he was made ex- 
amining surgeon of the twenty-sixth senatorial district, at Bing- 
hamton, to examine recruits, and soon after received a commis- 
sion as first assistant surgeon of the 109th N. Y. Vols.; was sub- 
sequently promoted to surgeon of the same, then to brigade 
surgeon 3d Division 9th Corps, and then became one of the chiefs 
of the operating staff of the 3d Division. After the close of the 
war, in. 1,865, the Doctor came to Waverly and established him- 
self in practice here, where he has since resided, being prom- 
inently identified with the growth and business progress of the 
place, serving it in many ways. The Doctor married Mattie M. 
Fuller, of Scranton, Pa., May i, 1873, and has no children. The 
Doctor is ,surgeon-in- chief of the Robert Packer Hospital. 





'■/? 



TOWN OF BARTON. 95 



Richard Allison Elmer was born in Sussex county, New Jersey, 
August 28, 1808. He was the eldest son of Micah Allison Elmer, 
and grandson of Dr. William Elmer, of Goshen, and Richard 
Allison, of Wawayanda, Orange county, N. Y., and great grand- 
son of Dr. Nathaniel Elmer, of Florida, and General William 
Allison, of Goshen, N. Y. He was a descendant of Edward 
Elmer, who came to America with the company of persons com- 
prising the church of the Rev. Thomas Hooker, in 1632, and 
settled with the rest of Hooker's company, in Hartford, Conn., 
in 1636, and was one of the original proprietors of the city. At 
an early age he was thrown upon his own resources, and there 
was added to his responsibilities the care and education of his 
younger brothers and sisters. While engaged in farming and 
kindred pursuits, under his guidance, one brother entered col- 
lege, and subsequently became a clergyman ; the other was en- 
gaged in business. His attention was early called Westward, and 
he became interested in Western lands. In November, 1850, he 
settled in Waverly, having been induced by his brother, the Rev. 
Nathaniel Elmer, then Presbyterian clergyman at Waverly, to 
give up his intention to locate in the West. He was largely 
interested in matters pertaining to the growth of the town, and, 
while he was a person of unobtrusive manners and quiet force, 
he was always identified with its schools and churches, and mat- 
ters pertaining to the advancement of the morals, and the gov- 
ernment of its citizens. He died comparatively young, August 
8, 1867. He was married September 11, 1832, to Charlotte Bailey 
(daughter of Colonel Jonathan Bailey, of Wawayanda). She 
died September 6, 1883, leaving four children: Howard, Mary, 
Richard A., and Antoinette Elmer. 

Rev. Nathaniel Elmer, brother of Richard Allison Elmer, 
mentioned above, was born in Sussex county, New Jersey, Janu- 
ary 3[, 1816. He was graduated at Union College, New York, in 
1840, and was ordained a minister of the Presbyterian church, 
October 24, 1844. He established the first Presbyterian church 
at Waverly, and was its first pastor, which position he held nine 
years. He was married to Mary Post, in May, 1849, ^nd died at 
Middletown, July 11, 1884, leaving one daughter, Elizabeth. 
^ Howard Elmer was born in Wawayanda, Orange county, N. Y., 
'August 2, 1833, the eldest son of Richard Allison and Charlotte 
. (Bailey) Elmer. He was prepared for college at the Ridgebury 
and Goshen academies, but delicate health prevented the con- 
tinuance of his course. Soon after coming to Waverly with hi§ 



96 TOWN OF BARTON. 



father, in 1850, a lad of seventeen, he entered the Waverly Bank, 
after which he was engaged by the Chemung Canal Bank and 
the First National Bank of Elmira. In 1864 he organized the 
First National Bank of Waverly, and was until 1868 its cashier, 
after which he became its president, which position he has con- 
tinued to hold. Having great faith in the value of the geo- 
graphical advantages of the valley in which Waverly is situated, 
in 1870 he associated with himself the late Charles L. Anthony, 
of New York, and the late James Fritcher, and Richard A. 
Elmer, his brother, of Waverly, and purchased the several tracts 
of land, nearly one thousand acres, now embraced by Sayre and 
its surroundings. The panic of 1873 and consequent depreciation 
of values, for a time checked the growth of the proposed town 
considerably, but he did not swerve from his course, and with an 
absolute faith in its future prosperity he built the town of Sayre, 
which to-day has a population of three thousand, and monthly 
pays off over eight hundred men. Upon the death of Mr. 
Anthony, he induced the Packer family, E. P. Wilbur, and 
Robert Lockhart, of South Bethlehem, Pa., to assume the 
Anthony interest, and it resulted in centering at Sayre the great 
shops of the Pennsylvania & New York, and the Lehigh Valley 
railroads, which are prominent factors in the prosperity of 
Waverly and Athens. Through his encouragement the Cayuta 
Wheel and Foundry, and the Sayre Pipe Foundry were built. He 
also built the Sayre apd Athens waterworks. He is president 
and active manager of the Sayre Land Company, the Sayre Water 
Company, the Sayre Pipe Foundry Company, the Cayuta Wheel 
& Foundry Company, and the Sayre Steam Forge Company. Mr. 
Elmer is also a director of the Pennsylvania & New York Railroad 
Company, the Geneva, Ithaca & Sayre Railroad Company, and 
treasurer of the Buffalo & Geneva Railroad Company. During 
the years 1875 and 1876 he was receiver of the Ithaca & Athens, 
and Geneva & Ithaca railroads. He has always refrained from 
holding any public office. He married, in October, 1865, Miss 
Sarah P. Perkins, daughter of the late George A. Perkins, of 
Athens, Pa. 

Richard Allison Elmer* is a son of the late Richard Allison 
Elmer, of Waverly, and Charlotte (Bailey) Elmer. He was born 
in Wavvayando, Orange county, N. Y., June 16, 1842, and is the 



♦This sketch of Mr. Elmer was contributed, at our solicitation, by Mr. Charles Nordhoff 
of the New York fferald. 



TOWN OF BARTON. 96^ 



second in a family of four, Howard Elmer being his elder 
brother. 

His family removed to Waverly in 1850, and have remained 
established there ever since. He was educated at the Waverly 
High School, and subsequently at Hamilton College, from which 
he was graduated in 1864. He intended to practice law, and pur- 
sued his studies for that purpose, and was admitted to the bar, 
but in 1867 the death of his father led him to abandon this plan 
of life, and he joined his brother, Howard Elmer, who was then 
president of the First National Bank of Waverly, became cash- 
ier of that bank, and the two succeeded to their father's business. 
He remained cashier of the First National Bank for twelve years, 
during which time, by his energy and business abilit5^, he so de- 
veloped the position about him that his firm became one of the 
largest investors of private trusts in the state of New York. 

In 1B70, he joined his brother Howard, Mr. Charles L. Antho- 
ny, of New York city, and Mr. James Fritcher, in the purchase 
of a tract of land in Pennsylvania, near Waverly, which now 
bears the name of Sayre, and has become a great manufacturing 
and railroad center, where large bodies of men are employed. 

He still retains his original interest at Sayre, and besides being 
a director of the First National Bank, is director of the Sayre 
Land Company, the Sayre Water Company, the Cayuta Wheel 
Foundry Company, the Sayre Pipe Foundry Company, and the 
Sayre Steam Forge Company. Busied with these and other 
enterprises, which gave full occupation to his energies, Mr. 
Elmer, though he took always a prominent part in political as 
well as local and charitable movements, never sought political 
office. His name was prominently mentioned in the Republicjvn 
state convention, in 1879, ^f"" *-he place of state treasurer, as be- 
ing in consonance with his business pursuits. 

In 1881, on the accession of President Garfield, the urgent pub- 
lic demand for trenchant and long needed reform in the post- 
office department led General Garfield to look around for a citi- 
zen of mbre than common courage, energy and business capac- 
ity to fill the place of second assistant postmaster general, in 
which bureau of the department the required reforms were to 
be made. Without Mr. Elm.er's knowledge, several gentlemen, 
prominent and influential with the President and the new admin- 
istration, recommended him as the fittest man within their 
knowledge for this place, and able to do the required and very 
difficult work of reform. The President determined to nomi- 



96^ TOWN or BARTON; 



nate him, and it was only when this was decided upon that Mr. 
Elmer was told of what was proposed. He had but a day to 
consider the question of accepting the position, and with his re- 
luctant consent his name was sent to the senate. He was con- 
firmed May 5, 1881, and soon after removed to Washington, and 
assumed his new duties. 

The affairs of the po^toffice department, particularly of that 
part under the control of the second assistant postmaster general, 
known as the star route and steamboat service, had fallen into 
such disorder under the previous administration as to become 
one of the gravest public scandals in the history of the govern- 
ment ; attracting the attention of the whole country, and being 
exposed and denounced by the journals of both parties, as well 
as in congressional committees and debates. All demands for efforts 
at reform had been successfully resisted, and President Garfield on 
entering the presidency, felt that a thorough extirpation of the 
gross maladministration and waste in this part of the public service 
was absolutely necessary to the success and good fame of his ad- 
ministration. He promised his unfaltering support to Mr. Elmer, 
3nd thus encouraged, the work was begun. Mr. Elmer found 
himself strongly opposed by those who had in various ways prof- 
ited by the corruption and maladministration, many of them 
men of influence, and supported by others prominent in the 
country. 

Almost entirely unknown to the circle of political leaders in 
Washington, and unfamiliar with the Department and with the 
Capitol, Mr. Elmer steadfastly pursued the work of reform he 
had undertaken. Overcoming all obstacles placed in his way, 
and the very great difficulties which necessarily met him at every 
step of an extremely intricate business, he, in three years of 
arduous and unceasing labor, completed the reform he had under- 
taken. 

This done, he resigned his place in February, 1884, to attend to 
his neglected private interests. On resigning, he received the well 
merited thanks of President Arthur, and of the head of the Post 
Office Department. His course and his success had already won 
the approval of the country, which saw with surprise and satis- 
faction the substitution of economy, honesty and efficiency in 
that branch of the service which had long been notorious for the 
most scandalous abuses. 

,A brief statement of the results he achieved shows their value 
and importance. In the .first year of his service he saved the 
Treasury $[,778,000. In the second and following years these 
savings amounted to over $2,000,000 per annum. Against the 
efforts of one of the most powerful combinations the country has 
known, he restored order and economy to the carrying of the 
Star Route and other mails, and without stinting the service 
the sayings he enforced and brought about were so great as 
to make the Post Office Department self-supporting for the 
first time in thirty years. This encouraged Congress to agree to 



TOWN OF BARTON. 56* 



Tiis recommendation to lower the letterxate from three cents to 
two cents. 

The press of the country freely expressed its satisfaction with 
Mr. Elmer's conspicuous' success in one of the most diflficult 
works of administrative reform ever undertaken. The New 
York Herald sdiid editorially of him, in July, 1882, in a compari- 
:Son of his work with that of his predecessor: 

" The saving Mr. Elmer has effected on the Star Route service 
alone, is more than enough to make the whole postal service self- 
supporting. That is what the public gains by the labors of an 
honest man, and it enables the Postmaster General to say, that 
for the year ending July 1, 1883, the Post Office Department will 
not only be self-supporting, but will have a surplus of one and a 
;half million dollars. Such reductions in the cost of the service, 
without impairing its efficiency, tell their own st6ry. They 
reflect the greatest credit on Mr. Elmer, as also on Postmaster 
'General Howe, without whose strong and constant support Mr. 
Elmer would not have been able to carry out the reforms he has 
made in a service which had become corrupt, demoralized, and 
inefficient." 

In June of the following year, the New York Herald, discus- 
sing the condition of the postal service, praised " Mr. Elmer's 
extraordinary adipinistrative capacity, courage and, honesty," 
and said, " As to Mr. Elmer, the Second Assistant General, it 
was his task when he came into office to reform the Star Route 
service, and weed out of it the extravagance and corruption which 
had filled it under his predecessor. Mr. Elmer did this, and he 
.deserves the thanks of the country for doing it admirably. In 
the first year of his service he made a saving of over one-half of 
the amount spent the previous year ; in the second year he 
effected still greater savings, and he did this in such a manner 
•that no complaints were made of insufficient service." 

Shortly after retiring to private life, Mr. Elmer organized in 
the City of New York the American Surety Company, of which 
he became and remains president. Soon after he had established 
this organization, he fell ill from long-continued and severe labor, 
.and suffered for nearly two years from the results of too great 
and prolonged a strain. He did not, however, give up work, 
and his care and skill have made his corporation the largest and 
most successful of its kind in the world. 

In the spring of 1887, on the application of the Surrogate of 
New York,. Judge Noah Davis, acting as appointed referee, took 
-testira.ony, at great length, to examine into the soundness of the 
plan on which the American Surety Company carried on its busi- 
ness, and the responsibility of its guarantees, both in regard to 
individuals and trusts. In. his official report to the Surrogate, 
Judge Davis went at length into the manner in which the Com- 
jjany does its work, and his conclusions were : 



96* TOWN OF BARTON. 



"The capital of the Company remains wholly unimpaired. 
The reserved fund and the net surplus show that the business of 
the Company has been, during its short term of existence, both 
prosperous and profitable. 

" The business of the Company is strictly confined to Fidelity 
Insurance, and the evidence shows that it engages in no other 
business. It divides this business into two classes, which it calls 
Judicial and Fidelity. The former embraces all the business per- 
taining to Courts of every kind, and includes undertakings or 
bonds in appeals, on attachments and other process in suit, bonds 
of guardians, of administrators, executors, trustees, receivers, 
and all other obligations of sureties in courts of law, equity and 
probate, which involve the fideHty of appointees, except public 
officers. The second class includes bonds and guarantees of the 
fidelity of employees of corporations and persons whose relations 
to their employers are fiduciary in any pecuniary sense, except 
also public officers. The judicial business has been conducted in 
eleven different States of the United States, but chiefly in New 
York and Pennsylvania." 

As to the Fidelity branch of the business, Judge Davis said: 

" Thus far the business has proved itself to be a safe and profit- 
able form of insurance, and the experience of this Company has 
justified the policy of the statute which authorizes the organiza- 
tion of such corporations. The conclusions which the Referee has 
reached from the examination of this case are, that the American 
Surety Company has not only satisfactorily justified in respect of 
its qualifications to become surety in this particular matter, but 
has shown that as surety in judicial proceedings, it presents a sys- 
tem of securit}^ worthy of the confidence of the Court, and of the 
public, and largely superior to that which can be offered by indi- 
vidual sureties. 

" The management of the affairs of the Company bv its officers 
has been most creditable to their capacity and integrity." 

On this report the Surrogate made an order June i, 1887, that, 
"The American Surety Company be accepted as surety on the 
bond of Ana de Rivas Hqrques given in the above entitled matter, 
or upon any new bond that she may be required to give in this 
proceedings." 

Mr. Elmer is a director of the Wabash railroad, the Atlantic & 
Danville railroad, the Phoenix Fire Insurance Company, and 
several New York and New England corporations. 

In 1883 he became interested in several Mexican properties, 
and out of this relation grew the International Company of 
Mexico, of which he was one of the founders and the treasurer 
and to whose success he has largely contributed. 

Mr. Elmer married June 16, 1870, Miss Sarah Foster France, 
daughter of the late J. Foster France, of Middletown, New York', 
and has three sons, Robert France Elmer, Richard Allison Elmer 
Jr., the third of his name, and Charles Howard Elmer. 



TOWN OF BARTON. 97 

John L. Sawyer, born in Orange county, N. Y., in 181 1, came 
to Barton in 1833, engaging in farming and lumbering. After 
the construction of the Erie railroad, in 1849, he removed to 
Waverly village, where he was long and prominently identified 
with the village's growth and prosperity, and where he resided 
until his death, in 1871. For many years he represented the 
town in the board of supervisors. Mr. Sawyer married Julia 
Smith, of Orange county, who bore him two children, Henry M. 
and J. Theodore. The former, born in 1832, married Maria, 
daughter of Senator Nathan Bristol, of Waverly, in 1856, and 
died two years later without issue. J. Theodore was born in 
Barton in 1834. He was educated at the district schools and 
Goshen Academy, and engaged with his father in the lumber 
business in Waverly and Canada. For a time he cftnducted a 
private bank, and in 1874 organized the Citizens Bank of Wav- 
erly, of which he is president. He represented his town two 
years in the board of supervisors, and in 1878 and 1879 the county 
of Tioga in the state legislature. In 1872 Mr. Sawyer married 
Alice Lyman, of Goshen, Conn., and has one child, Ellen, born 
in 1874. 

Moses Lyman who was born in Goshen, Conn., a son of Moses 
and Mary A. (Hadley) Lyman, August 20, 1836; was educated 
at Goshen Academy and Brown University ; began the lumber 
business at Windsor Locks, Conn., and Mclndoes Falls, Vt., in 
1859, where he remained till 1862. He then enlisted in the 15th 
Vt. Vols., as 1st Lieutenant of Co. F. In 1865, he came to 
Waverly and established a lumber business here under the firm 
name of Jennings & Lyman, and has since been a resident of the 
village. In 1872 he built the car-wheel foundry at the present 
village of Saj're, acting as treasurer of the company till he sold 
out his interest in 1884. Mr. Lyman is now identified with the 
Salisbury Iron interests of Connecticut, and is Eastern sales 
agent for the Shelby Iron Co., of Alabama, owns the Waverly 
Toy Works, and is president of the Lyman Bank, of Sanford, 
Fla., established in 1882., Mr. Lyman married Miss Ellen A. 
Douglass, of Mauch Chunk, Pa., who bore him two children, 
Moses and Isabel, and died in August, 187 1. In March, 1883, 
he married Miss Sarah H. Beebe, daughter of P. S. Beebe, of 
Litchfield, Conn. 

Henry G. Merriam, of the firm of Merriam Bros., was born in 
Goshen, N. Y„ March 5, 1837. He was educated at the Farmer's 
Hall Academy, of Goshen, and graduated iat Brown (R. I.) Univer- 



98 TOWN OF BARTON. 



sity, in 1857, and from 1861 to 1865 was principal of Leicester 
Acaderay, Mass. He then came to Waverly and established the 
hardware business which he has since conducted as senior part- 
ner. Mr. Merriam married Fanny W. White, of Worcester, 
Mass., in 1867, and has two children, Harry E. and Grace M. 
Mr. Merriam was the first president of the board of education 
here, and has held the office eleven years. 

Judge Ferris Shoemaker is the fifth son of Richard Shoemaker, 
who was a son of Benjamin, a son of Daniel, the original settler 
of that name in the town of Nichols, and was born June 22, 1838, 
in Athens township, Pa. Later in the same year his parents 
moved to Susquehanna county, Pa. Here he grew to manhood 
and made it his home until he moved to Waverly, in 1873. He 
was educated at Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa., and at the 
Normal School, Montrose, Pa. Prior to 1861 he engaged in 
teaching for several years, but soon after the war broke out he 
enlisted in the U. S. Marine Corps, and served four years and 
three months, returning home in the spring of 1866. The follow- 
ing fall he was elected register of wills, etc., of Susquehanna 
county. This office he filled three years, and in February, 1870, 
was appointed prothonotary by Governor John W. Geary, to fill 
vacancy caused by the death of W. F. Simrell. While perform- 
ing the duties of these offices he found time to pursue the study 
of law in the office of Hon. W. H. Jessup, of Montrose, and in 
the spring of 1871 was admitted to practice in all the courts of 
the county. He was afterwards admitted to the bar in Bradford 
and Wyoming counties,' and after coming to Waverly, in 1873, 
was admitted to practice in the supreme court of New York. 
For the past fourteen years he has been in constant practice in 
both states. At the general election of 1886 Mr. Shoemaker was 
elected special county judge, on the Republican ticket. He 
married -Gertrude S. Sweet, of Montrose, Pa., September i, 1869, 
and has had five children, all of whom except one are living, viz.: 
Richard S., Tila N., Mabel and Max Albrecht, residing with 
their parents. 

Jacob B. Floyd was born in Chemung, N. Y., April 26, 1839. 
He was educated in the public schools of his native town, in the 
Genesee Wesleyan Seminary, of Lima, N. Y., and the Wyoming 
Seminary, of Kingston, Pa., taking a college preparatory course. 
He began the study of law at the Albany Law school, graduating 
in 1871. He immediately began practice at Waverly, and has 
been in practice here ever since. He has held the office of special 



TOWN OF BARTON. 99 



county judge, was a member of the state assembly in 1882, and 
held other minor offices. Mr. Floyd married Matilda H. Snyder, 
of Scranton, Pa., August 14, 1861, and has had three children, 
only one of" whom, a daughter, Florence, a graduate of Wellesly 
college, is living. 

Adolphus G. Allen, son of Samuel and Miranda (Sheffield) 
Allen, was born at Troy, Pa., November 30, 1830. His studies 
were begun in the common schools, and he prepared for college 
in the Troy academy ; but left off ideas of the classics for law, 
beginning-study with General James Nj'e, at Hamilton, N. Y., 
and completed them with Goodwin & Mitchel, of the same place, 
and was admitted to the bar at the general term at Binghamton, 
January, 1853. The next spring he was. admitted to the Brad- 
ford county bar, and immediately moved to Factoryville, and in 
the spring of 1854 located in Waverly, where he now is. He 
has held the office of town clerk, trustee of the village, been 
special county judge two terms, and was a member of the state 
legislature in 1886. Judge Allen married Sarah S. Walker, of 
Factoryville, in March, 1853, and has two children, D. Welling- 
ton, a practicing attorney of Waverly, born June 18, 1854, and 
Kate, wife of Clarence C. Campbell, born January i, i860. 

William Polleys was born in Maiden, Mass., August 18, 1816, 
and when about ten years of age removed with his parents to 
Bi-adford county, Pa. When about eighteen years of age, he 
entered the office of the Elmira Republican, as an apprentice. 
After mastering the trade, he remained in the office until 1840, 
when he and Alva S. Carter purchased the paper, and continued 
the publication until 1845, when they sold their interest, and the 
name was changed to the Elmira Advertiser. In 1854 Mr. Polleys 
removed to Waverly, and entered into partnership with F. H. 
Baldwin, in the publication of the Advocate, then but recently 
changed in name from the Waverly Luminary, and continued one 
of its publishers up to the time of his death. July 17, 1861, Mr. 
Polievs was appointed postmaster by President Lincoln, and for 
fourteen years following held that position, when he voluntarily 
retired. From early manhood Mr. Polleys took an active interest 
in politics, and until the demise of the Whig party, belonged to 
that organization, but on its dissolution, he united with the Re- 
publicans, and much of the strength and success of their party 
in Tioga county can be traced to his energy, perseverance and 
untiring work. For his friends and the success of his party, no 
sacrifice was too great. He took an active interest in all public 



lOO TOWN OF BARTON. 



enterprises, and in everything that was calculated to advance the 
interests of the village. He died suddenly June 26, 1883. 

Richard D. VanDeuzer came from Orange county, N. Y., to 
Waverly, in 1852, when there were but four or five hundred inhab- 
itants in the village, and has been connected with public enter- 
prises here ever since. He built the Waverly steam ffouring-mill, 
and conducted it until it wa,s,destroyed by fire. He built also, a 
planing-mill in Waverly, and a steam saw-mill on Shepard's creek. 
The former was twice destroyed by fire. Previous to his con- 
nection with manufacturing projects, he was engaged in merchan- 
tile pursuits, and conducted the first coal-yard in Waverlv. He 
was one of the incorporators of the old Waverly Bank, also of 
the First National Bank, and was the first president of the latter 
institution, which office he held seven years. He was one of the 
first stock-holders, and helped organize the G. I. & S. R. R. 
company, and in connection with John Sawyer, secured the right 
of way from the village to Dean's creek, a distance of seven miles, 
for one dollar. Mr. Van Deuzer was president of the village cor- 
poration at the opening of the Lehigh Valley R. R.,and in honor of 
the occasion a banquet was given at the Snyder House, at which 
he presided. Mr. Van Deuzer married Harriet Everson. by whom 
he had five children, viz.: Fanny, wife of W. H. W.Jones, Howard 
C, Mamie C, Annie L., and Richard D., Jr. Howard C. mar- 
ried Kittie Towne, of Rockford, III. 

Gurdon G. Manning, was born in Berkshire, N. Y., December 
30, 1825. He was educated in the common schools, and attended 
the Owego academy. He then taught school several years, went 
to Owego as a clerk for Truman, Stone & Buckbee, where he re- 
mained six years. In 1856 he went into the dry goods-'business with 
C. E. Schoonmaker. In the latter part of i860 he was elected 
county treasurer, and sold his interest to his partner, and in 1861 
removed to Factory ville, where he entered the mercantile trade 
again, in company with Silas Fordham, In 1876 he removed to 
Waverly village, and since January, 1886, has held the office of 
justice of the peace. Mr. Manning married Sarah A. Adams, 
October 23, 185 1, and has had born to him three children, viz.: 
Lucius R., a banker of Tacoma, W. T., Charles E., an assistant 
engineer in the U. S. Navy, and Jennie S., wife of James P. 
Nevins, of this town. 

' Ambrose P. Eaton was born in the old town of Union, now 
Chenango, Broome county, N. Y., June 4, 1826. He was edu- 
cated in the public schools of his native town, studied law with 



TOWN OF BARTON. lOI 



Hon. Charles E. Parker, of Owejgo, was admitted to practice at 
Bingiiamton, in 1868, and has been in practice in Tioga county 
since. Mr. Eaton married Mary H., daughter of Calvin John- 
son, March 13, 185 1, and has one child, Mary E., wife of James 
A. Roberts, of Tioga. Mr. Eaton's home is in Smithboro, though 
Kis office is located in Waverly. 
|, William Fiske Warner, one of Waverly's lawyers, has been 

'' prominently identified with the later growth of the village, and 
is widely known as a writer and student of local historv. In 
Owego, his former home, we print a biographical sketch of this 
gentleman. 

Benjamin Genung was an early settler in this vicinity. Jean 
Guenon, one of the exiled Hugenots who took refuge ig Holland, 

' set sail from Amsterdam, April 2, 1657, in the ship " Draetvat," 
Captain John Bestevaer, and came directly to New Amsterdam 
(New York). The next year he settled at Flushing, L. I., where 
he acquired some land, and remained until his death, in 1714. 
His wife was Grietie; or Margaret Sneden, of Harlem, whom he^ 
married August 30, 1660, and who survived him about thirteen 
years. They left besides daughters, two sons, John, born in 1669, 
and Jeremiah, born in 1671. From these it is believed, have de- 
cended the entire, and now widely scattered family of Genung, 
in this country. Beniamin Genung, a soldier of the revolution, 
settled in New JerseyT'and at an early day came to Dryden, 
Tompkins county," when that county formed a part of Tioga. 'He 
had six children, — Barnabas, Aaron, Rachel, Philo, Peron and 
Timothy. Barnabas married Susan Johnson, by whom he had 
twelve children who arrived at maturity — Lydia, Nathaniel, 
Abram, Harrison, Ann, Rebecca, Sally, Enos, George, Merilda 
and Barnabas. Abram married Martha, daughter, of James R. 
Dye, by whom he has two sons, John Franklin and George Fred- 
erick (twins), the former professor of rhetoric in Amherst 
college, the latter professor of Greek, Latin and political econo- 
my in Benedict Institute, Columbia, S. C. Enos H. was born 
February 26, 1825, and has lived principally in Tioga county 
since 1852. He married Sarepta, daughter of George Earsley, of 
Caroline, N. Y., April 7, 1850', and by whom he has six children, 
viz.: Emma (Mrs. Fred Morgan), George D., the well known 
journalist of this village, Dell (Mrs. George Gardner), Priscilla 
(Mrs. George Stevens), Luella (Mrs. William Ewen) and Reuben 
E. Mrs. Genung died Septeniber 18, 1882. Salmon A., son of 
Nathaniel, was born January 27, 1841, married Mary E., daughter 



I02 TOWN OF BARTON. 



of Asa Dot}', of Towanda, Pa., September 21, 1861, and is now 
a resident of Waverly. George D. Genung married Mary A. 
VanDerlip, a daughter of S. T. VanDerlip, of Waverly, June 16, 
1876. Three children have been born to them, Arthur, deceased, 
G. Leyl and M. Lucille. 

Squire Whitaker was born in Deckertown, N. J., June r, 1808, 
and came with his parents to this town in 18 16. He walked the 
entire distance, which in those days was not considered a re- 
markable feat, and assisted in driving a cow. In 1832 he mar- 
ried Sally, daughter of John Hanna, and for about two years re- 
sided in EUistown. They afterward moved to the farm on Tall- 
madge Hill now owned by his son Lewis, then an unbroken forest. 
He set up a temporary house on crotched sticks, which the family 
occupied while his log-house was building. He subsequently . 
built a framed house, which was burned, 'and his neighbors 
kindly aided him to re-build, and in nine days had his house 
ready for occupancy. Their children were Horace, Jane (Mrs. 
D. D. Knapp), Pheobe (Mrs. Hatfield Hallett), Lewis, James, 
William and Frank (Mrs. Wilbur Finch). Lewis man-ied Frances, 
daughter of James Parker. In 1849, the family removed to Wa- 
verly and took up their home at the homestead in Chemung street, ' 
where Mr. and Mrs. Whitaker continued to reside to the time of 
their death. Mrs. Whitaker died about fifteen years ago, and 
Mr. Whitaker on May 15, 1887. He was appointed captain of 
the state militia by Governor Marcy. In 1844 Tioga county of- 
fered a banner to the town that would bring to Owego the larg- 
est delegation in favor of Polk and Dallas. Mr. Whitaker was 
at the head of the greatest number, and took the prize. 

Banking Institutions. — The Waverly Bank was organized in 
1855, with John C. Adams, president, and George H. Fairchild, 
cashier. The business was at first opened in the northwest room 
of the Snyder House, and a year or two later, upon the comple- 
tion of the bank building corner of Broad and Loder street, re- 
moved into it. In about 1865 it was changed to a National bank, 
and in 1871 was moved into the building now occupied by the Citi- 
zens Bank. 

About the first of April, 1872, a private bank was opened in the 
same building, H. T. Herrick,president; George Herrick, cashier; 
H. T. Sawyer, teller. They also held the same positions in the 
National Bank, and within a month after the organization of the 
private bank, the National went into the hands of a receiver. J. 
S. Thurston, of Elmira, was the first receiver appointed, and at 



TOWN OF BARTON. 103 



the end of a month he resigned and was succeeded by J.T. Sawyer, 
who served for about three months and resigned. J. B. Floyd was 
then appointed and closed up the business. In May of the follow- 
ing year, 1873, the HerrickBank also suspended, and J. T. Saw- 
yer and R. A, Elmer were elected assignees and effected a settle- 
ment of the business. 

The First National Bank was organized February 13, 1864, 
with a capital of $50,000.00. Its first officers were R. D. Van 
Deuzer, president ; R. A. Elmer.vice-president ; H. Elmer, cashier. 
In February, 1884, their charter was extended twenty years. The 
present officers are Howard Elmer, president; N. S. Johnson, 
vice-president; F. E. Lyford, cashier. 

The Citizens Bank was incorporated under the banking laws 
of the state of New York, June 18, 1874, and commenced business 
on the first of July following, with a capital of $50,000.00. The 
first officers were J. T. Sawyer, president ; M. Lyman, cashier. 
The present officers are J. T. Sawyer, president ; S. W. Slaugh- 
ter, vice-president ; F. A. Sawyer, cashier. 

Gas Light Company. — The Waverly Gas Light Company was 
organized January 7, 1873, with a capital of $50,000.00, and the 
works Were completed August 15th of the same year. They were 
constructed by Deily & Fowler, engineers of Philadelphia, and 
cost the company $50,000.00. The village wasfirst lighted with gas 
July 24, 1873. The first officers of the company were William 
F. Warner, president ; Frederick W. Warner, secretary ; E. W. 
Warner, treasurer. William F. Warner is still president, and 
Henry G. Merriam., secretary and treasurer. 

Waverly Library and Museum. — A library and museum was 
opened on Park avenue, June 10, 1885, due mainly to the efforts 
of Prof. Riker, seconded by the generous co-operation of the citi- 
zens. The library contains some 2,500 volumes and 1,000 pam- 
phlets, and has a circulating and a reference department, the 
latter embracing many rare and valuable works. It is made free 
to the public, excepting the circulating department, for the use 
and increase pf which an annual fee is charged. It has worked 
well and given great satisfaction in the short period of its exis- 
tence. 

Factoryville. — The name " Factory ville " was originally ap- 
plied to all the territory now included in both Waverly and East 
Waverly, and took its origin from the number of factories and 
mills erected along Shepard's creek in the early part of the cen- 
tury. The village is pleasantly located, but its prosperity de- 

8* 



I04 TOWN OF BARTON. 



parted when, in 1849, the completion of the Erie railroad caused 
Waverly to spring up on its western border, and while the latter 
has advanced rapidly in population and in commercial and man- 
ufacturing interests, the former has made but ver\' slight pro- 
gress. The village now contains one church (Old School Bap- 
tist), three stores, two hotels, one tannery, one steam saw-mill, 
wagon shops, blacksmith shops, etc., a fine school building, belong- 
ing to the graded school system of Waverly and East Wa- 
verly, and has about 500 inhabitants. Waverly in her growth 
has pushed out in all directions, but particularly towards Factory- 
ville, until now the two unite and practically constitute one vil- 
lage, the name Factory ville even locally having given way to 
"East Waverly," and doubtless within a few years both will be 
comprised within the corporate limits of Waverly, and " Factory- 
ville '' will exist only in memory and in history. 

A survey of Factory ville was made in 18 19, b}' Major Flower, 
John She.pard owned the land on which the village is now located, 
and he divided it into large lots, and sold them to Thomas Wil- 
cox and Moses and Elisha Larnard, who divided them into village 
lots, which were sold, and neat and comfortable buildings were 
erected upon them, some of which are now standing. The post- 
office was established here in 1812, with Isaac Shepard as post- 
master. The office was first located in the woolen mill, and later 
in Mr. Shepard's store on the Owego road (Chemung street). 
The establishment of mail and stage lines over the newlv con- 
structed turnpike, made the "tavern" a necessity, and in 1824 
one was erected by Isaac Shepard, on the lot where now stands 
the C. H. Shepard residence, and a few years later John Shackel- 
ton, Sr., built a tavern and stage-house at East Waverly. 

At a very early date in the history of the town, mills and fac- 
tories were erected here. In the year 1800 George Walker built 
a grist-mill, and in 1808-09 John Shepard, of Milltown, and Josiab 
Crocker, then recently removed from Lee, Mass., erected a full- 
ing-mill, carding-machines and saw-mill. Later, Isaac and Job 
Shepard, sons ot John Shepard, the former the father of Charles 
and William Shepard, erected a woolen factory, which was after- 
wards bought and enlarged by Alexander Brooks, an uncle of 
C. C. Brooks. This building was destroyed by fire in 1853. It 
was rebuilt by Mr. Brooks' sons, William and Gilbert, as an agri- 
cultural implement factory. It was afterwards again destroyed 
by fire, and rebuilt in part by William Brooks. In 1863 C. C. 
Brooks bought a half interest in the concern of William Brooks 



TOWN OF BARTON, I05 



and they enlarged the buildings, added a foundry, machine-shops, 
etc. In 1870 Messrs. Brooks sold the establishment to A. B, 
Phillips, who again converted it into a tannery. In 1879 A. I. 
Decker purchased the property, and in August, 1882, the build- 
ings were again destroyed by fire. Mr. Decker at once cam- 
menced rebuilding, and in January, 1883, was again ready for 
business. 

About the year 1824 Jerry Adams built a tannery near the 
state line, and later he sold the industry to one Norris, who in 
1834 sold to Luther Stone, father of William and James Stone. 
In 1842 Mr. Stone removed the building and put up a much larger 
and better one. In i860 this was burned down, but was rebuilt 
the same year. In 1866 Luther Stone died and his sons continued 
the business until 1868, when James sold his interest to J. A. Per- 
kins, and two years 'later William also sold to Mr. Perkins, and 
the latter continued the business for several years. In 1883 the 
Sayre Butter Package Co. leased the building, which for a few 
years preceding this time had been unused, and now it is the 
scene of this important industry. 

Barton is a post village situated near the southeast corner of 
the town of Barton, on the north bank of the Susquehanna river, 
and is a way-station on the N. Y. L. E. & W. railroad. It con- 
tains one church (M. E.), one school-house, One hotel, two gen- 
eral stores, one feed and saw-mill, and, about two hundred inhab- 
itants. Of the early settlers in this vicinity we have already 
spoken. The village is about five miles from Waverly. 

Reniff is a post village situated near the northwest corner of 
the town. The postoffice was established here in March, 1881, 
with Willis E. Gillett postmaster, who has continued in office to 
the present time. The village contains a school-house, saw, plan- 
ing, shingle, and feed-mills, creamery, general store, blacksmith- 
shop, and about a dozen dwellings. The patrons of the post- 
office are about 200. The mills are owned by W. E. Gillett, as 
is also the store and blacksmith-shop, and he owns a half interest 
in the creamery. Mr. Gillett is. largely engaged in farming, and 
employs upwards of thirty men. Although comparatively a young 
man, he has shown remarkable enterprise and energy in establish- 
ing and maintaining most ot the business interests of the place, 
and Reniff owes almost its entire existence to him. 

LOCKWOOD is a post village situated on the western border of 
the town, about seven miles north of Waverly, on Shepard's 
creek, and is a station on the G. I. & S. R. R. The postoffice was 



iq6 town of barton. 



established in 1869, as Bingham's Mills, with G. W. Bingham 
postmaster. The name was afterwards changed to Lockwood. 
The population is about 200. The village has one church (M. E.), 
a school- house, custom and flouring-mill, two saw and planing- 
mills, two blacksmith-shops, two turning, scroll-sawing, and 
wagon-shops, one hotel, two general stores, and one grocery and 
meat market. It is exceedingly bright for a place of its size, and 
is remarkable for its industry and thrift. 

North Barton postofSce is located in the northern part of 
the town, near the head-waters of Ellis creek. 

Halsey Valley is a post village extending from the town of 
Tioga partially over into the northeastern corner of Barton town- 
ship. A description of it may be found in the history of Tioga. 

MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES. 

The Novelty Furniture Works of Waverly were established by 
Hall & Cummings, in 1873, in South Waverly. In 1876 the 
works were removed to Athens, Pa., where, under the present 
firm of Hall & Lyon, the business prospered and grew until it 
ranked among the largest and most successful in the state of 
Pennsylvania. In June, 1884, the works were completely de- 
stroyed by fire. The people of Waverly, wisely realizing the im- 
portance of manufacturing as an element of growth and prosper- 
ity, made a very liberal proposition to Messrs. Hall & Lyon to 
re-build their works in their beautiful and thriving village. The 
proffer being accepted, the works were re-buUt, on a much 
enlarged basis, and were ready for operation in the autumn of 
1884. At the present time the works consist of three main brick 
buildings, besides a brick boiler and furnace house, and a large 
dry-kiln capable of thoroughly kiln-drying three million feet of 
lumber annually. For convenience of arrangement, thorough 
equipment and facility for receiving the raw materials and ship- 
ping the finished product, these works are not surpassed by 
any similar institution in the whole country. Now more than 
72,000 feet of floor space is utilized, and constant employment is 
afforded to 125 workmen, with a promise of constant growth and 
expansion in the near future. Messrs. Hall & Lyon now maintain 
a large sales room in Philadelphia, and their product finds market 
also throughout New England, New York, and Pennsylvania. 

D. H. Eaton & Son's Refrigerator, Butter and Oyster Pail Manu- 
factory was established in July, 1885, by the above firm who are 



TOWN OF BARTON. lOJ 

the patentees. The pail is made of tin, with a jacket of sheet or 
galvanized iron so fitted as to allow a free circulation of air be- 
tween the pail and jacket ; the latter being perforated at the top 
and bottom. There are sizes for holding five, ten, fifteen, twenty 
and fifty pounds of butter. By thorough tests if has been proved 
of surpassing coldness for the transmission of butter, and they 
may be returned to the shipper and ,re-used many times. The 
works are situated in East Waverly, on Main street, under the 
supervision of the firm. 

The Sayre Butter Package Company was established by Richard 
D. Van Deuzer, who secured the patent in July, 1882, and who 
erected the buildings and put in the machinery necessary for 
their manufacture. In October of the same year he entered into 
partnership with James A. Clark, which, partnership was con- 
tinued until 1884. The factory is situated on Main street, in 
East Waverly, and is run by both steam and water-power. They 
make the first tin butter package with wooden jackets and covers 
ever manufactured in this section, and Mr. Van Deuzer was the 
first to introduce them into New York, Pennsylvania, New Jer- 
sey and the New England states. The tub is made of tin with an 
elm jacket, bottom and top hoops and wooden cover. There are 
three sizes made, holding twenty, thirty and fifty pounds. There 
are thirty-five hands employed, and the capacity is 1,000 pack- 
ages in ten hours. The present proprietors are R. D. & H. C, 
Van Deuzer, of Waverly, and F. T. Page, of Athens, Pa. This 
firm has recently added the manufacture of baskets of all varieties, 
made of staves and splints, and the entire management is under 
the supervision of R. D. Van Deuzer. 

The Decker Tannery, located at Factoryville, has already been 
spoken of in connection with the sketch of that village. The 
tannery gives employment to twenty-five hands, and has the 
capacity for turning out 50,000 sides of leather per annum. 

C. M. Crandall's Toy Manufactory, on Broad street, was estab- 
lished here by him in 1885. He came from Montrose, Pa., where 
he had carried on the business a number of years. He manu- 
factures about $40,000.00 worth of toys per year, employing fifty 
hands. His goods consist of a vast number of ingenious me- 
chanical toys, all of which are invented and manufactured by 
himself. The production is disposed of entirely to New York 
jobbers, orders for a single style of toy often amounting to several 
thousand dollars. 

John C. Shear's Grist and Flduring-MUl, On Broad street, was 



I08 TOWN OF BARTON. 

built by Weaver & Shear, in 1878. Since 1882 the mill has been 
owned and operated by Mr. Shear. It is operated by steam- 
power, has four runs of stones, one set of rolls, four brakes, and 
other modern machinery to correspond. Mr. Shear employs four 
men, and grinds about 200 bushels of grain per day, with the 
capacity for turning out 450. He does principally custom work; 
James Lemons Foundry and Machine Shop, on Broad street, was 
originally established by him in 1850. He located on Broad street 
then, about where Clark's hardware store now is, his being' the 
third building erected on the street. Mr. Lemon continued in 
business at this point until 1856, when he sold to H. M. Moore, 
and moved to about what is now No. 150 Broad street. About 
twenty years ago he located at the site he now occupies. He 
manufactures plows, stoves, plow and agricultural fixtures, etc. 

The Reniff Mills were built by Isaac Barnes and George Newell, 
upwards of fifty years ago. The present mill was built about 
forty years ago, but has been enlarged and extensively improved 
by the present owner, Willis E. Gillett. Its capacity for saw- 
ing and planing is 2,000,000 feet per annum. There is also a feed 
and shingle-mill in connection. 

The Gillett & Decker Creamery was established in the spring of 
1887, by W. E. Gillett and A. 1. Decker. It is situated at Reniff, 
is run by a six horse-power engine, and is equipped with all the 
most improved machinery known to the manufacture of butter. 
It runs this year about 175 gallons of milk per day. 

The Cayuta Creamery was established in 1883, ^^ Barton Center, 
and was known as the " Barton Center Creamery." In the win- 
ter of 1887 it was removed to East Waverly, near the Geneva & 
Sayre R. R. depot. Its capacity is for 1,000 cows, employs five 
men, and runs delivery wagons for supplying private families 
with milk products. It was established by F. A. Schuyler, and 
was run by him until the spring of 1887, when H. T. Harding 
entered into partnership with him, and it is now run under the 
firm name of Schuyler & Harding. 

The Lockwood Flour and Custom Feed-Mill was established in 
1853, by Charles Bingham, and is now run by Bingham Brothers. 
It is situated in the village of Lockwood, on Shepard's creek. It 
is run by steam and water-power, has four runs of stones, and 
good facilities for grinding buckwheat. Its capacity is about 
200 bushels in ten hours. 

The Lockwood Saw, Planing, and Lath Mills, are run by the Bing- 
ham Brothers. The present mills were built by Bingham, Lyons 



TOWN OF BARTON. I09 

& Co., in 1879. They are situated on Shepard's creek, are run by a 
forty horsei-power engine, and have the capacity for 10,000 feet of 
lumber per day. The head sawyer is J. A. Stever. 

A. V. C. Vail &■ Co.'s Steam Saw and Planinfr-Mill is situated at 
Lockwood village, near the G. I. & S. R. R. It was removed 
there from road- 2, in 1880. Its capacity is 5,000 feet per day. 

A. Brook's Turning ond Scroll-Sauuing Works, at Lockwood, are 
fitted with a four horse-power engine, a variety of circular and 
scroll saws and lathes, and all equipments necessary to do the 
finest wprk in that line. A specialty is made of the manufacture 
of church seats, where a variety of styles and patterns may be 
seen. The business was established in 1880. 

C. H. Coleman's Turning, Scroll-Sawing, Wagon and^Blacksmith 
Shops are situated near Bingham's mills, in Lockwood. The 
works are run by an eight horse-power engine, have a planer, 
yarious saws, etc., also facilities for doing all kinds of repairing 
at short notice. 

C. F. Hannds Circular Saw-Mill is situated on Ellis creek, 
about one mile from the River road, and is run by steam-power. 
It was built by the present proprietor in November, 1884. Its 
capacity is from 5,000 to 8,000 feet in ten hours. The first mill 
on this site was built by Foster, Newland & Smith, about T859. 

CHURCHES. 

The Tioga and Barton Baptist Church. — After the. Revolution, 
■when immigration began to set in from the Eastern states, the 
Congregational denomination of Connecticut sent out the Rev. 
Seth Williston as a missionary, and we find him holding religious 
services iu diSerent places in the county as early as 1795. The 
earliest religious organization formed in the county was "on Feb- 
ruary 20, 1796. Several families from Bedford, Mass., settled 
along the river between Tioga Center and Smithboro, calling 
their settlement " New Bedford." Among them was a Baptist 
minister, tJie Rev. David Jayne. Assisted by a deputation from 
the Baptist church at Chemung (now Wellsburg), a church was 
organized, comprising nine members, and styled the " Baptist 
Church at New Bedford," Rev. D. Jayne being the first minis- 
ter, and so continued for fourteen years. Subsequently, as the 
settlement extended further north, a portion of the society formed 
a new organization at Tioga center, and the old society became 
established near Halsey Valley, and took a new name, calling 



no TOWN OF BARTON. 



itself " The Tioga and Barton Baptist Church." In 1848 they 
constructed a new church edifice, at a cost of $800.00, which 
will seat 300 persons. The society now has fifty members, with 
Rev. Franklin J. Salmon, pastor. 

The First Presbyterian Church of Waverly, located on Pennsyl- 
vania avenue, was organized with twenty-two members, June &, 
1847, by the Revs. Thurston, Carr and Bacchus, a committee 
from the Chemung presbytery. They erected a church edifice 
in 1849, enlarged it in i860, and in 1886 the society erected at a 
cost of $30,000 a handsome brick church of a modern style of 
architecture. It will seat 600 persons, has large parlors, pastors 
study, etc., in the rear of the anditorium, over which is the large 
Sunday school room. Rev. Nathaniel Elmer was the first pastor. 
Rev. John L. Taylor is the present pastor. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church of Waverly, located on Waverly 
street corner Chemung, was first organized as a class at Factory- 
ville, in 1828, with five members, namely : Elisha Tozer (leader), 
Rachel Tozer,Philena Tozer, JoshuaWilcox, and King Elwell. The 
first church edifice was erected in Factory ville in 1840, and dedi- 
cated the same year by Rev. Horace Agard, pastor. The trus- 
tees were Jacob H. Russell, Alpheus H. Tozer, and Gilbert H. 
Hallett; presiding elder, George Harmon. The society sold the 
church building to the Baptist society of Waverly, who took it 
down and erected their present commodious house of worship. 
The Methodist society removed to Waverly and built a frame 
church edifice, which was dedicated in March, 1864, by Bishop 
Janes. It was destroyed by fire in 1865. The present substan- 
tial and attractive brick building was erected, and dedicated in 
1867, by Rev. Hiram Mattison, D. D. Rev. James O. Woodruff 
is the present pastor. 

The First Baptist Church, located on Park avenue, corner of 
Tioga street, was originally organized at Ulster, Bradford county. 
Pa., June 24, 1824, at the house of Joseph Smith. Elder Levi 
Baldwin, from Smithfield, Dea. Asa Hacket, F. Perkins, Eliphalet 
Barden, and Selah Finch, from Chemung Baptist church, Tioga 
county, N. Y., and Isaac Cooley, formed the council. Deacon 
Asa Hacket was chosen moderater, and Levi Baldwin, clerk. 
The following named persons, sixteen in number, composed the 
original organization : Elder Thomas Bebe and Betsey Bebe, his- 
wile, Joseph Smith and his wife, Euphenia Smith, Lockwood D. 
Smith, Alexander Hibbard and his wife Polly Hibbard, Abel J. 
Gerold and Nancy Gerold, his wife, Cornelius Quick and his wife. 



TOWN OF BARTON. Ill 



Margaret, Sisters Simons, Holcomb, Weriotand Lucretia Norton, 
It was first styled the " Athens and Ulster Baptist Church," and 
meetings were held at Athens, Ulster and Milltown. The name 
was changed Mirch lo, 1832, to the " Athens and Chemung Bap- 
tist Church," and again, on May 14, 1836, to " Factoryville Baptist 
Church." Finally, in 1865, it was established at Waverly. The 
society have a neat and commodious church edifice, which will 
comfortably seat 500 persons. The present pastor is Rev. Daniel 
H. Cooper. 

The Chemung Old School Baptist Church, located at Factoryville, 
was organized January 7, 1846, with nine members, as follows: 
Moses Slawson, David Proudfoot, Henry Rowland, Nathan Carey, , 
Mary Carey, Fanny Carey, Betsey A. Slawson, Map Slawson 
and SafaR" Rowland. They met for worship in the houses of mem- 
bers and in the school-house until 1864, when the brick church 
erected by the New School Society, about 1830, was purchased 
by them at a cost of .$1,100.00. The building will seat about 250 
persons. Elder M. W. Vail is the present pastor. 

The Grace Episcopal Church, located on Park avenue corner of 
Tioga street, was organized December 28, 1853. The certificate 
of organization is signed by Rev. George Watson, the rector of 
St. Paul's church, of Owego, Levi Gardner, Arthur Yates, Thomas 
Yales and A. P. Spalding. The society has a very tasty church 
building, erected about 1855. The first rector was Rev. Horatio 
Gray. The present rector is Rev. George Bowen. 

The Church of Christ, located on Providence street, was organ- 
ized July 8, 1877, with seven members, and a Sabbath school with 
twenty-one teachers and scholars was established at the same 
time. 

St. James Roman Catholic Church is located on Chemung street 
corner of Clark. The first Roman Catholic church erected in 
Waverly was built in 1852. The lot whereon the building stood 
on Erie street, was deeded gratis to the Rt. Rev. John Timon, first 
bishop of Buffalo, by the late Owen Spalding, who also gave the 
lots for all the protestant churches first erected in Waverly. The 
affairs of the parish were attended to by Rt. Rev. James T. Mc 
Manus, the present Vicar General of the diocese of Rochester. 
The pastor's residence was in Owego, as there were not enough 
Catholics in Waverly to support a pastor. The parish, priest of. 
Owego was the only one in Tioga county. The money to build 
the first church was collected by the late John Sliney. The 
seating capacity was about three hundred, but at the time the 



112 TOWN OF BARTON. 



church was built and for several years after, the building was 
too large for all the Catholics of Smithboro. Barton, Chemung 
and Waverly. The present house of worship is a handsome, como- 
dious edifice, with elegant memorial windows of stained glass, 
given by the members of the congregation. The lot is finely 
laid out. The pastoral residence, an elegant house, stands on the 
northwest corner of the lot. This building was erected about 
twenty years after the first church was built. The lot was pur- 
chased by the late John Sliney, and held in trust for the congre- 
gation for years, until they were able to build thereon. The first 
resident pastor was Rev. James Brady, now located at Arcade, 
Wyoming county. The present pastor is Rev. Edward McShane. 

The North Barton Methodist Episcopal Church was organized 
in 1869, with eig^iteen members. The church was erected in 1870, 
at a cost of $1,500.00. The first pastor was Rev. William H. 
Gavitt. The present pastor is Rev. Ziba Evans. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church of Barton Village was organized 
about 1805, at the house of Peter Barnes. Benjamin Aikens, 
Peter Barnes and his wife, Gilbert Smith, his sister Betsey 
Smith, and Samuel Mundy were among the earliest members. 
Peter Hofiman, Selah Payne, and Daniel Bensley joined soon 
after. For many years the society was supplied • by circuit 
preachers, who, traveling long distances, were able to hold meet- 
ings but once in lour weeks. Rev. Timothy Lee and Rev. Hor- 
ace Agard are mentioned as among the earliest circuit preachers. 
Benjamin Aikens was the first local preacher. The society held 
the first camp-meeting in the county, at Smithboro, in 1807, and 
their regular meetings were held in private houses, the woods, 
and the school-house, until 1836, when the present church edifice 
was completed, costing $1,100.00. It has sittings for about 400 
persons. Rev. William H. Pearne was the first resident pastor, 
and Rev. Luther Peck is the present one. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church of Lockwood was organized at 
an early date, the society first holding services in private houses, 
often at Charles Bingham's residence. In 1854 a church building 
was erected, which gave place to the present structure in 1886. 
It will seat 250 persons and is valued at $4,000.00. The society 
now has sixty members, with Rev. Ziba Evans, pastor. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church at Ellistown is an old building, 
but we have been unable to collect any reliable data from which 
to compile a sketch. The society has now no organization there. 



TpWN Of BERKSHIRE. II3 

BERKSHIRE lies in the riortiieastern part of the county, 
and is bounded on the north by Richford, east by the 
County line, south by Newark Valley, and west by Caroline 
knd Candor, containing an area of about 17,443 acres, 12,474 
acres of which is improved land. The surface of the town is 
pleasingly diversified by lofty hills and fertile valleys, the former 
attaining a mean elevation of rom 1,200 to 1,400 feet. East and 
West Owego creeks, with their tributaries, form the water 
courses of the township, the former entering on the north, near 
the center, flowing a southerly direction through the town ; the 
latter forms the dividing line on the west between Berkshire and 
the towns of Caroline and Candor. The soil of this territory is 
principally clay — in the valley of East creek yellow ^loam, with 
clay underlying ; on the east, gravelly loam. The valleys and 
west hills were timbered with beech, maple, and iron-wood, the 
east hills with pine and hemlock. 

Settlement. — The stor^' of the "Boston Purchase," or "Boston 
Ten Townships," we have already detailed in chapter two. It 
devolved upon some of the proprietors therein named to found 
the township of Berkshire, a town that takes its name from the 
region of the famous Berkshire Hills of Massachusetts, and which 
it, indeed, in physical contour, greatly resembles. From these 
pioneers of the Puritan East, also, seems to have fallen upon their 
descendants of to-day, and to them is due, much of the prosper- 
ity, the integrity, character and intelligence for which the citizens 
of Berkshire are so justly celebrated. Nowhere have the man- 
ners of a people, their customs, their high sense of duty, their 
strict observance of the Sabbath, their love for the church and 
the school 'followed the line of descent more closely than in the 
township of Berkshire. These pioneers came not empty-handed 
nor empty-headed, for aside from their native New England 
thrift they were possessed of some means and had availed them- 
selves of a fair opportunity in the school-room. 

Until 1808 the locality was known as " Brown's Settlement," 
after the pioneer family of that name. Brown's Settlement, 
then, was begun on the first day of April, 1791, by five men who 
left Stockbridge, Mass., on February 23d, spending thirty-seven 
days on the way, and bringing their tools and provisions on two 
'sleds, drawn by ox-teams. These pioneers were Isaac and Abra- 
ham Brown, brothers, Daniel Ball, Elisha Wilson, and John Car- 
penter, the latter coming as the hired man of the Browns. Two 



114 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Other men, Messrs. Dean and Norton, came in the party as far as 
Choconut, now Union, where they remained. 

Thus in brief is the story of the pioneer settlement of the town 
of which we write. Of these early ones and many who followed 
them we will speak, under the head of 

EARLY HOUSEHOLDS OF BERKSHIRE.* 

Isaac Brown, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 25 Oct., 1766, second 
son of Capt. Abraham and Beulah (Patterson) Brown, came to 
Brown's Settlement with the pioneer party in 1.791, leaving Stock- 
bridge, 23 Feb. and reaching their destination i April. He 
probably worked with his brother, Abraham, till 1793, when he 
began to make a clearing for his own home. He married with 
Clarissa Ball, who was born in Stockbridge, 14 Nov., 1775, 
daughter of Josiah and Esther (Ward) Ball, and settled in a log 
house on the east side of the road on the south half of lot 305, a 
little south of where the railway crosses the road. Here he had 
just fairly started a pleasant home, when he died, 10 April, 1797, 
the first adult to die in the settlement. His widow died 12 Feb., 
1844. Their children were : 

I. Brown, a daughter, died in infancy. 

II. Isaac Brown, b 4 Oct., 1797, six months after his father's- 
death, was bi;ought up by his grandmother, Beulah Brown, and 
married, 5 July, 1820, with Eleanor Branch, daughter of Levi 
and Electa (Lyman) Branch. She was born in Richmond, Mass., 
29 Nov., 1796, and died 4 July, 1867. He died at Newark Valley. 
They had a family of ten children, several of whom are yet 
living. 

Josiah Ball, b at Watertown, Mass., 16 Dec, 1742, son of John 
and Lydia (Perry) Ball, a shoemaker, m 26 Feb., 1768, with 
Esther Ward, who was born in Worcester, Mass., 7 March, 
1750-51, daughter of Major Daniel and Mary (Coggin) Ward. 
They settled in Stockbridge, Mass., and of their thirteen children 
all were born there but the youngest. In June, 1794, they came 
to Berkshire, and settled on lot 337, where their son-in-law, Luke 
B. Winship, dwelt for many years after them. He died 26 July, 
1 8 10. She died 9 M.arch, 1836. For some years he had an extra 
log house, which, in the season for moving, he kept to accommo- 
date those settlers who needed a temporary shelter while pre- 

* Extracts from an unfinished work, in tnanuscript, entitled, Folk Book of the Boston 
Purchase, by D. Williams Patterson, of Newark Valley. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. ' II5 

paring their houses. At other times it was used for a school- 
house, or for his shoe shop. Children : 

I. William, died when two years old. 

II. Daniel, b 27 Dec, 1769. 

III. William, b 18 Oct., 1771. 

IV. Stephen, b 29 Jan., 1774. 

V. Clarissa, b 14 Nov., 1775, m Isaac Brown. 

VI. Samuel, b 13 l^ov. 1777. 

VII. Henry, b 21 Nov., 1779. 

VIII. Josiah, b 28 Jan., 1782. 

IX. Isaac, b 27 Dec, 1783. 

X. Electa, b 9 June, 1788, d 6 Sept., 1869. 

XI. Charles,, b 4 Sept., 179O, d 9 Jan., 18 14. 

XII. Cynthia, b 24 April, 1793-, m with Luke Bates Winship. 
YIII. Mary, b in July, 1801, and died when eighteen months 

old, about II or 12 Jan., 1803. The mother was over fifty years 
old when this child was born. 

Daniel Ball, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 27 Dec, 1769, son of 
Josiah and Esther (Ward) Ball, has been called one of the pio- 
neers of Berkshire. He came here as one of the pioneer party 
of five who began the work in Brown's Settlement, i April, 1791, 
but did not work in the present limits of Berkshire toward clear- 
ing a home for himself or his father. He returned to Stockbridge 
in the fall, probably before his comrades did, and married at 
Lenox, Mass., 31 Oct., 1791, with Lucia Wells, daughter of Col. 
William Wells, of Lenox. In June, 1794, he returned to Berk- 
shire with his father's family, bringing his wife and daughter, and 
settled in a log house on lot 336, near the present home of Charles 

S. Manning. They moved, about 1820, to Victor, N. Y., and 
thence to Michigan, where they died ; he about 1833 ; she about 

1840. They had ten children: 

I. Ann, b at Stockbridge, in 1792. 

II. William Wells, b in Berkshire, 8 Sept., 1794, the first white 
child born within the limits of the town , married in February, 
1820, with Harriet Cook, daughter of Ebenezer Cook, Esq., and 
was living in Dec, 1820, where James Cross now lives. He 
afterward bought the farm of Abraham Brown, where his son 
Rodney A. Ball now lives, in Newark Valley,, and died there 15 
Jan., 1880. 

•III. Horatio. IV. Henry. V. Hester. VI. Sophia. 
VII. Chester. VIII. Calvin. IX. Davis. X. Myron. 
William Ball, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 18 Oct., i77i,a cloth- 



Il6 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

dresser, m with Phebe Bement, daughter of Asa and Ruth (Neal) 
Bement, and settled in Berkshire about 1794. They afterward 
moved to Tioga, and thence to Victor, N. Y., where they died; 
she about 23 April, 1847 ; he some years earlier. It is supposed 
that he built the first cloth-dressing works in Berkshire. Hfe left 
there before Dec, 1820. Their children were: 

I. George. II. William, a physician, settled in Victor, N. Y. 
'III. Asa. IV. James. V. Albert. VI. Mary. 

VII. Charles, a physician, b in Tioga,N. Y., ig July, 1824, set- 
tled in Victor. VIII. Phebe. 

, Stephen Ball, born in Stockbridge, Mass., 29 Jan., 1774, son of 
Josiah and Esther (Ward) Ball, is entitled to rank among the 
leaders in the settlement of Berkshire. He came in 1793, when 
nineteen years old, to prepare a home for his father's family, on 
lot 336, on which he cut the first tree. Here he made a clearing, 
built a log house, raised a little corn, and perhaps a few potatoes^ 
turnips and beans, made some provision for keeping a cow, and, 
in the fall, spwed a piece of wheat, and returned to Stockbridge. 
In February, 1794, he came again, bringing with him a cow, and 
lived alone till his father's family came, in June, 1794, and only on 
Sundays meeting his nearest neighbors, Isaac Brown and Daniel 
Gleazen. He married, in 1801, with Polly Leonard, daughter of 
Capt. Asa and Olive (Churchill) Leonard, and settled on the 
northeast corner of lot 337, where the hotel is now kept. Here 
they spent most of the remainder of their lives. She died 3 
Oct., 1850, and he died 19 Feb., 1857. Their children were : 

— I. OHve Leonard, b 2 Nov., 1801, m with Robert Akins. 

II. Mary,b 12 May, 1803, died 21 March, 1815. 

III. Harriet, b 19 Tuly, 1805, m with Aaron P. Belcher. 

IV. Eliza Ann, b 7 Oct., 1807, m with Charles Brown. 

V. Richard Leonard, b 9 June, 1809, died 21 May, 1848. 

VI. James Ward, b 24 May, i8n, m with Sypha Matson, and 
settled at Ottawa, 111. 

VII. Caroline, b 14 May, 1813, m with Carlisle P. Johnson. 

VIII. Levi, b26 March, 1815, m 28 Oct., i84i,with Betsey Ann 
Royce, and lives on the line between lots 385 and 416. 

- IX. Anson, big March, 1817, m 5 Jan., 1848, with Caroline- 
Moore, and died at Berkshire, 27 April, 1884. 

~ X. Asa, b 26 April, 1819, m 15 Oct., 1845, with Esther Maria 
Manning, who died 15 May, 1887. He resides in Berkshire, a 
deacon of the Congregational church. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 11/ 



XI. Mary Sophia, b 2 Feb.,, 1821, m with Dr. Edward H. 
Eldredge. 

XII. Robert Henry, b 5 Feb., 182-3, m 19 Dec, 1850, with 
Maria Henrietta Conklin, and lives in Berkshire. 

XIII. Frances Calista, b 2 Jan., 1825. m with George Clark 
Royce, and d 21 Oct., 1853. 

Samuel Ball, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 13 Nov., 1777, son of 
Josiah and Esther (Ward) Ball, came to Berkshire in 1794, m 
about 1803, with Jerusha Slosson, They dwelt at one time on 
lot 103, in Newark Valley, but in 1818 sold to Ezekiel Rich, re- 
turned to Berkshire village, and thence to the west border of the 
town, and settled on the east side of the road, opposite the house 
of Phineas Case, on southwest quarter of lot 380, and was living 
there in Dec, 1820. Afterward they went to Lawi-enc^ville, Pa., 
where they died ; he, 12 Sept., 1 841; she, 5 February, 1870, aged 
ninety-six years. Children were : 

I. Nancy, b 18 May, 1805, m with Joseph Weaver. 

II. Lodema Farnham, b6 May, 1806, m with Charles Frederick 
Akins. 

III. Frederick William, b 6 June, 1808, d 9 April, 1835. 

IV. Adeline, b i April., 181 1, m with her cousin Clark Slosson. 

V. Bail, b 7 Dec, 1813, died young. 

VI. Cynthia Winship, b 10 March, 1818, m with Amasa Daily, 
and second with her cousin, Ezbon Slosson. , 

Henry Ball, b 21 Nov. 1779, married with Sarah Judd Moore, 
daughter of Henry Moore, and settled in Berkshire. He bought 
for fifty dollars, the old house of Dr. Joseph Waldo, 23 May, 
1808, and moved it up to the place where his sons after ward, lived, 
on the west side of the road, near the northeast corner of lot 
337, second house below the hotel. He died 22 Sept., 1837 '• she 
died 7 June, 1856. Their children- were : 

I. Henrietta, b 14 Oct., 181 1, died 16 Sept,, 1862, according to 
her gravestone, " aged 49 years and 1 1 months," which is a year 
too little, if the date is correct. 

II. Gilson, b 29 Dec, 1812, married, with Rhoda Ann Johnson, 
and was killed by a falling tree, 4 March, 1871. 

III. Sophronia, b 1814, died 14 April, 1824, aged nine years. 

IV. Franklin, b.25 Sept., 1816, m. 29 March, i8S9, with Marga- 
ret Meagher, and died at Newark Valley. 

V. Eliza, b 7 June, 1819, died 19 Nov., 1840. 

VI. Martin Henry, died unmarried, 28 July, 1875. 

VII. Susan Sophronia, died in Berkshire,, unmarried. 



Il8 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

VIII. Alvah Moore, resides in Berkshire on his father's home- 
stead. 

Josiah Bali, b 28 Jan., 1782, was an excellent school-teacher, 
and a maker of wooden pumps. He married with Luc}' Leon- 
ard, and settled in Berkshire village, where they died ; she 5 Oct., 
1856 ; he 23 Oct., 1862. Children : 

I. Emily, b 12 Aug., 1804, m with Horatio Collins. 

II. Sabrina, b 18 Dec, 1806. m with Addison Collins. 

III. Julia, m with Dwight Waldo, and died 20 Jan., 1843. 

IV. Mary, m with John Waldo, and settled at Portage,, N. Y., 
where she died 13 May, 1887. 

Isaac Bali, son of Josiah, came to Berkshire with his parents in 
June, 1794; m 20 Oct., 1808, with Cassandra Johnson. They set- 
tled on the east side of the road, on lot 336, where Charles O- 
Lynch now lives, and died there ; he 20 Nov., 1856; she, 19 Sept., 
1858. Their children were : 

I. Francis Augustus, b 17 Aug, 1809, d 14 April, 1819. 

n. Abigail, b 15 Jan., 181 1, m with Nathaniel Bishop Collins. 

III. Plandon Halsey, b 20 May, 1813. 

IV. Eunice, b 17 Nov., 1815. 

V. Margery, b 23 June, 1818, m with Theodore Leonard. 

VI. John, b 31 July, 1820, married with Mary Ann Ralyea, 
daughter of Dene and Mercy (Bradley) Ralyea, of Union, N. Y. 

VII. Francis, b 14 April, 1824. 

IX. Jay, b 10 May, 1827. 

Joseph Gleazen lived in Stockbridge, Mass., till after his sons 
came to Brown's Settlement, after which he and his wife came to 
live with them, but never had a separate household in Berkshire. 
He died 9 March, 1816, aged seventy-five years. During the last 
years of her life she was not of 'sound mind. They had children, 
perhaps not in the following order: 

I. Daniel, m with Rebecca Barnes. 

II. Jesse, m with Mercy Adsel. 

III. Caleb, had three wives, and lived at Richford. 

IV. Sarah, m with Doud, and second, 21 Oct,, 1802, with 

Nathan Ide. 

V. Joseph, b about 1772, m with Lovice Bailey. 

VI. Ebenezer Ede, a tailor, m with Susanna Scott, who came 
to Berkshire with the family of Noah Lyman, and in Dec, 1820, 
they dwelt in Berkshire, on the west side of the way, a little 
below where Nathaniel Bishop Collins afterward built his brick 
house, and after that he moved to, Newark Valley, and died there 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. II9 

in the old Lincoln tavern house. His wife, born 25 July, 1784, 
married (2d) 5 March, 1832, with Samuel Gleazen, his brother, 
and died in Richford, 5 Feb., 1853. 

VII. Samuel, b in Stockbridge, Mass., 4 April, 1783, was 
brought up by Silas Pepoon, Esq. He came to Berkshire later 
than his brothers, and settled in Richford. 

Daniel Gleazen came to Brown's Settlement, probably, in the 
spring of 1794. He was a son of Joseph Gleazen, of Stockbridge, 
Mass. Tradition says that he first settled on the Southeast quar- 
ter of lot 377, on the hill road, but afterward built a brick house 
on the road that lies in the hollow. He niarried at Berkshire, 
26 Jan., 1805, with Miss Rebecca Barnes. They had seven chil- 
dren : 

I. Luke. II. Eli, b perhaps about 2 June, 1S08. III. Ruth. 

IV. Rebecca, b perhaps about 3 Dec, 1813. V. Joseph. 
■ VI. William, b perhaps about 15 March, 1820. 

VII. Barnes, b perhaps about 12 Feb., 1822. 

Jesse Gleazen, brother of Daniel, probably came at the same 
time. He joined the church in Stockbridge, Mass., in 1790, was 
dismissed 2 Oct.,' 1803, to the church about to be formed at 
Tioga, N. Y., of which he was a constituent member, and con- 
tinued a member till 3 Oct., 1813. He married at Berkshire, 29 
Oct., 18—, with "Miss Mercy Adzdil," as John Brown, Esq., 
recorded it ; but the name may have been Adsel, or Hadsel. 
Their children were: 

I. Sarah, bap 20 Nov., 1803. 

II. -James Adsel, bap 20 Nov., 1803. 

III. Mercy, bap 4 April, r8o5. 

IV. Betsey Ruth, b 22 May. 1810, bap 2 Sept., 1810. 

V. Huldah Ann, b 2 March, 1813. 

Joseph Gleazen, Jr., was born in Stockbridge, Mass., about 
1772, son of Joseph Gleazen. The date of his advent to Berk- 
shire is not known, but he probably came with his brothers. He 
was taxed for highway work three days in 1798, and married 16 
May, 1803^ with Lovice Bailey, (or " Vicey," as John Brown 
recorded the name) sister of Levi Bailey: He hrst settled on 
West Owego creek, west of the road, on the southwest quarter 
of lot 380, where Eleazer Lyman and his son, Daniel Lyman, 
afterward lived, just north of where the towns of Candor and 
Caroline corner together on the creek. In April, 1820, he left 
this place and settled in a log house on the southeast quarter of 
lot 342, on Berkshire Hill. Afterward they moved to Newark 
9* 



I20 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Valley, and died there; he 21 Sept., 1849, '"^ his 77th year; she 
15 Oct., 1850, in her 65th year. Their children were : 
I. Silas Pepoon. II. Emeline, d 3 July, 1863, aged 54. 

III. Sabrina.^~ 

IV. George Densmore, b 27 Feb., 18 14, resides in Newark Val- 
ley; m with Mary Ann Benton. 

V. Lavina. VI. Julia. 

AVII. Semantha, m with Amasa Day Durfee. 
*= /ConsiderTL-awrence was born at Canaan, Conn., 8 Feb., 1777; 
mil Sept., 1796, with Wealthy Peck, who was born 27 Oct., 
1775. His name appears in John Brown's book 24 May, 1797, 
and he was taxed for work on highways, three days in 1798, and 
his name was in the tax list of 1802. He dwelt on the southwest 
quarter of lot 338, where Charles Backus Ford has since lived. 
He died 20 Feb., 1857, and his obituary notice said that he " came 
to Berkshire sixty-one years ago," which indicates 1796 as the 
year in which he came. He probably spent the summer before 
his marriage in preparing his home. Their children were : 

I. Maria, b 30 Aug., 1797, m with Thomas Langdon, of Berk- 
shire. 

II. Isaac Peck, b 8 Feb., 1799, m 20 Jan., i8^r, with Catharine 
Cole. 

III. Miles Lewis, b 6 Nov., 1800, m 26 March, 1834, with Syl- 
via C. Foote and settled in Berkshire. 

IV. William, b 14 Feb., 1803, m 14 Sept., 1840, with Laura 
Woodruff. 

V. Betsey, b 27 Aug., 1804, m 25 Dec. 1821, with Gamaliel 
Whiting. 

VI. Josiah, b 14 Sept., 1806, m with Martha Baird. 

John Brown, b at Stockbridge, 18 July, 1765, eldest son of 
Captain Abraham and Beulah (Patterson) Brown, came to 
Brown's Settlement in Feb. 1796. He settled on lot 296, and 
built a saw-mill there. He married 20 Feb., 1800, with Mehitable 
Wilson, daughter of Elijah and Mary (Curtis) Wilson, of Stock- 
bridge, where she was born, 19 Dec, 1768. He was one of 
of the first justices of the peace in the town of Tioga, and was 
supervisor of that town for four years. He was also supervisor 
of the new town of Berkshire, in 1808 and 1809, and in Oct., 1809, 
was appointed a judge of Broome county court of common pleas, 
which office he held at his death, 14 Oct., 1813. She survived 
till 3 Aug., 1857. Their children were: 



i.\jv\n wr j3i:ii.\j\.oxi.xi\x:'. 



I. John, b 14 Feb., 1801, a surveyor, mill-wright, and farmer, 
died unmarried 12 Nov., 1869. 

II. Mary Wilson, b i Aug., 1802, unmarried. 

III. Francis Henry, b 6 March 1804, died unmarried. 

IV. Charles, b 11 Oct., 1805, married 6 Oct., 1835, with Eliza 
Ann Ball, daughter of Stephen and Polly (Leonard) Ball, and died 
28 March, 1869. 

V. Juliana, b 5 July, 1807, died 19 Nov., 1869. 

VI. Frances Cornelia, b 19 March, 1809, unmarried. 

Asa Leonard, b 30, Jan., 1759, son of Abiel Leonard, of Con- 
necticut, married 11 Oct., 1781, with Olive Churchill, who was 
born in Stockbridge, Mass., 20 Feb., 1764, daughter of Samuel 
and Elizabeth (Curtis) Churchill. They dwelt in Stockbridge, 
and afterward in West Stockbridge, and started in*Feb., 1793, 
with the Slossons, to settle in Berkshire ; but on reaching Cho- 
conut, now Union, N. Y.,th"ey stopped on account of her health, 
and stajed with her brother, Asahel Churchill, till the next win- 
ter, and then retuned to Massachusetts. Early in the year 1797, 
they made another trial, and reached Berkshire, where they spent 
the rest of their lives. He died 24 March, 1836; she died 21 Aug., 
1844. Their children were : 

I. Polly, b II Feb., 1783, married with Stephen Ball. 

II. Solomon, b 23 Nov. 1784. 

III. Lucy, b 3 Jan., 1787, m with Josiah Ball, Jr. 

IV. Anna, b 16 Sept., 1788, m with Henry Griffin. 

V. Levi, b 5 July 1790, m with Lucia Avery, and d 16 July, 1862. 

VI. Nancy, b 26 April, 1792, m with Isaac Hitchcock. 

VII. Louis Gigette, b 30 July, 1794, m 28 Feb., 1821, with Han- 
nah Royce, and died at . Berkshire, i Nov. 1830. She was still 
living there in 1887. 

VIII. Henry, b 14 Aug.', 1797, at Berkshire, m with Julia White, 
and settled at Ithaca, N. Y., where he died 7 March, 1863. 

IX. George W., b 5 April, 1799, d 23 April, 1799, 

X. Sabrina, b 28 Aug., 1800, d 22 Nov. 1809. 

XI. Amanda, b 6 Aug., 1802, m with John Brush Royce. 

XII. Chester, b 9 Oct., 1805, m 12 Oct. 1826, with Susan Maria 
Wilson; settled at Newark Valley, where he died 25 Nov., 1841, 
qnd she died at Owego. 

XIII. Leonard, a son, b S June, 1807, d 29 June, 1807. 
Solomon Leonard, son of Asa Leonard, came to Berkshire with 

his father, and on reaching his majority became a partner with 
him in the business of tanning and currying. He married 30 



122 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Jan., 1813, with Nancy Ann Waldo, and settled on the south side 
of Leonard street, where their son, Joseph Waldo Leonard, now 
lives. She died 18 Sept., 1865; he died 24 March, 1866. Their 
children were : 

L Jane, b i Nov., 1813, m 23 July, 1839, with Wm. C. Churchill, 
and died 23 May, 185 1. 

n. Theodore, b 13 Feb., 1815, ra 15 June, 1842; with Margery 
Ball. 

in. Frederick William, b 8 Oct., 1816. 

IV. Mary Elizabeth, b 14 July, 1818, m 6 Oct., 1845, with 
Charles Mills, of Little Falls, N. Y., who died 3 May, 1849; ^nd 
she m (2nd) II Nov., 1850, with Melancthon Rogers. 

V. Joseph Waldo, b 27 May, 1820, m 12 Oct., 1852, with Mary 
Ann Campfield, and resides on his father's homestead. 

VI. Henry Griffin, b 27 March, 1822, m 12 Feb., 1850, with 
Catharine Campfield. 

VII. Edwin Dwight, b 25 Feb., 1824. 

VIII. Frances, b 25 July, 1826, m with Dr. Frederick A. 
Waldo, of Cincinatti, Ohio. 

IX. Nancy Bliss, b 1 1 April, 1828, m with George Clark Royce, 

X. George Franklin, b 15 Nov., 1829, m 17 Nov., 1850, with 
Eunice Patch. 

XI. Jerome, b 17 Aug., 1830, m i Oct., 1862, with Araminta 
Boyer. 

Ebenezer Cook, b at Stockbridge, Mass., about 1772, married 
there 3 April, 1793, with Elizabeth Churchill, who was born 
there 8 Sept., 1774, daughter of Samuel and Elizabeth (Curtis) 
Churchill. He came to Berkshire early in 1797, in company 
with his brother-in-law, Asa Leonard, and they began business 
as tanners and curriers under the name of Leonard & Cook, 
and according to the custom of that day made shoes also. He 
settled first in a small log house which stood near where Joseph 
Waldo Leonard dwelt in 1881, then built a shop on the corner 
opposite the brick meeting-house, where the brick house now 
stands; and just north of that, a small framed house, into which 
he moved his family 25 April, 1804. In this house he died 17 
March, 18 12. He served for several terms as justice of the peace, 
was always dignified with the title " 'Squire," and was univers- 
ally respected, although he followed too diligently the fashion of 
the times. His widow was named in the census of Dec, 1820, 
and died 23 June, 1825. Their children were: 

I. Harriet, b 22 Oct., 1793, m with William Wells Ball. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 23 



II. Aurilla, b about Oct., 1795, m with Denis Corsaw ; Clarissa, 
b about June 1798, d I March, 1815. 

III. Charles West, b i Feb., 1800, m 7 Oct., 1823, with Amy 
Royce, settled in Richford, and moved in 1834 to Chicago, 111., 
where she died 24 Aug., 1835; ^"d he married a second wife, 
and died ig May, 1845. 

IV. Abigail West, b about 1802, d when eighteen months old. 

V. Abigail West, b 26 April, 1804, m with James Hobart Ford. 

VI. Henry William, b in 1806, d 3 Aug., 1825, aged 19. years. 

VII. George West, b 9 Dec, 1808, drowned 15 June, 1810. 

VIII. George Churchill, b 10 March, 1811, m 10 Nov., 1834, with 
Lucy Maria Williams, and settled at Newark Valle}' ; removed 
about 1844 to Chicago, 111., where he died. 

Azel Hovey was born 13 Aug., 1741, old style, perhaps, at 
Lebanon, Conn., m with Jemima Phelps, who was born at Leba- 
non 4 April, 1745. It is said that they dwelt in New London, 
Conn., for many years, but their records have not been found 
there. They came to Berkshire, either with or soon after their 
son Azel, and lived with him while he dwelt in Berkshire. They 
afterward went to Newark Valley and were cared for by their 
son David Hovey. He died 17 June, 1818, in an old I6g house 
that stood on the west side of the road nearly opposite the house 
in which George Dohs now lives. His death was from pleurisy, 
occasioned by working in the water during a freshet. She died 
at the house of her son-in-law, John Harmon, 14 July, 1829. Tra- 
dition says: "They had eleven children." We have the names 
of nine, viz.: 

I. Azel. II. Abigail, m with William Dudley. 

III. Jemima, b about 1775, m with John Harmon. 

IV. Eunice, rn with Asahel Hatch, of Richmond, Mass. 

V. Jedediah, settled in Hartford, Conn. VT. Abel. 

VII. Nathan, was. living in Berkshire in 181 2. 

VIII. Zeruiah, died unmarried. IX. David. 

Azel Hovey, b at New London, Conn., about 1763, eldest child 
of Azel and Jemima (Phelps) Hovey, married with Lucy Rock- 
well, daughter of Abner and Deborah Rockwell, and came to 
Berkshire as early as the beginning of 1798, and in that year was 
assessed to work five and a half days on the highway. He set- 
tled on the east side of the creek, on the north half of lot 385, 
near where the old road crossed, the creek. He sold this place 
to Capt. Henry Griffin, and then lived on the place previously 
owned by his brother-in-law, William Dudley, and this he sold to 



124 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Barnabas Manning. The3' afterward lived in Union, now Maine, 
N. Y., and then in Newark Valley, where he died 14 Sept., 1838, 
in his seventy-fifth year, on the place now owned by Clark Wal- 
worth. Their children were: 

I. Julia Rockwell, m with Harlow King. 

II. Eliza, b at Berkshire, 11 April, 1798, m with David Coun- 
cilman. 

III. George, settled at Belvidere, 111. 

IV. Azel, died at Rochester, N. Y., unmarried. 

V. Hannah, b at Berkshire, 8 Aug., 1802, m with Allen Watkins, 
and died 9 May, 1886, at Belvidere, III. 

VI. Clarinda, m with Newell Watkins. 

VII. Jedediah, died young. 

VIII. Calvin, m with Mary Wheeler, and settled at Belvidere, 111. 

IX. Lucy Ann, m with Leander King, of Belvidere, 111. 

X. Sabrina, went to Belvidere, 111. 

XI. Henry, went to Belvidere, 111. 

XII. William, was sheriff at Belvidere, 111. 

XIII. Amanda, went to Belvidere, 111. 

Jeremiah Campbell, a blacksmith, lived on the east side of the 
road, in the north part of lot 416, close to the present north line 
of Berkshire. He married at Stockbridge, Mass., 2 Jan., 1792, 
with EHzabeth Rockwell. He was taxed to work on the high- 
ways, in 1793, three days, and was also in the lax-list of 1802. He 
still lived in the same place when the census of Dec, 1820, was 
taken, and moved, a few years later, to Binghamton, N. Y. 
Among his children was Rachel Campbell, who married with 
Silas Warren Bradley. 

Ephraim Cook was taxed to work three and a half days on the 
highways, in 1798, and his name was on the tax-list of 1802. His 
dwelling place at that time has not been ascertained, but later he 
lived within the present bounds of Richford, on the south part 
of lot 460, at the angle of the road where Lyman Jewett now 
lives. He was living as lately as October, 1813, but the date 
of his death, which was caused by the bite of a rabid dog, has 
not been found. He was a farmer, and came, it is said, from 
Preston, Conn. His children were : 

I. Polly, II. Althea. III. Harvey, m with Clarissa Smith. 

IV. Phila, (perhaps Philena). 

Josiah Howe was assessed to work three days on the highways 
in 1798, and his name was on the tax-list of 1802. He had a child 
born 8 July, 1808, and another 17 August, 1813, names unknown. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. lag" 

Benjamin Olney was assessed to work three days on the high- 
ways, in Berkshire, in 1798. 

Josiah Seeley was assessed to work three days on the highways 
in 1798. 

David Williams, b at Richmond, Mass., 3 May, 1775, m there 
I July, 1798, with Jerusha Pierson, who was born at Sag Harbor, 
L. I., daughter of Zachariah and Sarah (Sanford) Pierson, who 
afterward settled in Richmond. They came to Berkshire in June, 
1800, and settled on the northwest quarter of lot 345, where his 
son George now lives. He built a saw-mill and a grist-mill, and 
the sites are still occupied in the village. His wife died of con- 
sumption 2 April, 1807, aged thirty-two years and six months. 
He married (2d) 25 Dec, 181 1, with Samantha Collins. He died 
17 April, 1867, aged nearly ninety-two yearsT Judge Avery, in 
1854, said of him : 

" The discharge of many important official duties and trusts has 
devolved upon Judge Williams in the course of his long and use- 
ful career. He served upon the Bench of the Court of Common 
Pleas of Broome county, as one of the Associate Judges, from 
the year 181 5 down to the time when his town was given back to 
Tioga, in 1822, and with the exception of one year, he held the 
position continuously, from the, first date of his service until 
1826 ; having been transferred to the Bench of the Tioga Com- 
mon Pleas, by. appointment, after the change of boundaries. For 
three years, while his town was within the limits of Broome, and 
for six years after it had been surrendered to Tioga, he was its 
Supervisor, and for many years, commencing at an early date, 
he discharged the duties of many minor offices, with exactness, 
good judgment, and ability. 

"In 1827 and 1831, Judge Williams represented his county in 
the Legislature, and from the various posts which he has been 
called upon to hll, he has always retired with the increased re- 
gard and respect of his constituents. 

" Methodical in his habit of thought, firm in his adherence to 
what he has deemed rules of right, and of uncompromising integ- 
rity, he will leave to those who are to follow him, an example of 
moral worth, and an impressive illustration of what may be 
achieved by fixed purpose, steady effort and well regulated Hfe." 

His. children were : 

I. Lucinda, b 3 May, 1805, ni 22 July, 1829, with Alfred John 
Piggatt Evans, of Binghamton. 

II. John Chamberlin, b 16 March, 1818, m with Emily Win- 
ship, who died i March, 1853, and (2d) 30 Oct., 1855, with Susan 
Elizabeth Goodrich, and now lives at Farmerville, in Covert N. Y. 

III. George, b 31 May, 1829, m 27 Feb., 1851, with Louisa 
Janette Barnes, and resides on his father's homestead. 



■126 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Ransom Williams, born in Richmond, 9 March, 1778, brother 
of David Williams, came to Berkshire about the same time. He 
married 13 Dec, 1801, with Olive Collins, of Richmond, who was 
b 29 Feb., 1780, daughter of Dan and Amy (Bristol) Collins. They 
settled on the south half of lot 345, on the west side of the road, 
nearly opposite the street which leads to the railway station. He 
was a very worthy, useful, and intelligent man, much interested 
in the cultivation of vocal music, and his home was always the 
seat of a generous hospitality. They died without children; he 
17 June, 1839; she 31 Jan., 1845. 

Heman Williams, b at Richmond, Mass., 9 Jan., 1788, (brother 
of David and Ransom) came to Berkshire, perhaps some years 
later than they, and was accidentally killed 17 Sept., 18 16, while 
raising a bridge, near the residence of Col. John B. Royce. Judge 
Nathaniel Bishop, of Richmond, wrote to his daughter, Mrs. 
Lucy Bement, on Sunday 6 Oct., 18 16: " I have felt unable, since 
the news of Heman Williams's terrible death, to visit his father, 
but shall improve the first time that I can prudently do it, for I 
feel a, painful sympathy for him.'' 

Miss Wealthy Collins should be named in connection with the 
household of Ransom Williams, of which she was an honored 
member for many years. She was a sister of Mrs. Olive Williams. 
She left Richmond 15 Nov., 1803, and was two weeks on the road 
to Berkshire. She married, 25 June, 1835, with Judge Calvin 
McKnight, of Watertown, N. Y. He died at Guilford, Conn., 
25 Nov., 1855, aged seventy-two years and three months. She 
died at Newark Valley, 12 Jan., 1869, aged eighty-two years and 
nine months. Her retentive memory yielded many interesting 
traditions of the early settlers. She was born at Richmond, 
Mass., 3 April, 1786. 

The second marriage recorded by the Hon. John Brown was. 
of " Mr. George Vicory to Miss Susana Paine," in Dec, 1800. If 
at any time they dwelt in Berkshire they soon removed to Caro- 
line N. Y., and settled on the N. M. Toby farm. He wrote his 
name Vickery. 

Edward Paine lived in Berkshire, or its vicinity, as early as 
Sept., 1802, and had a brother here who, it is supposed was 
Thomas Paine, who, with his wife bought goods of Joseph 
Waldo, 2d., as early as 16 June, to be paid for in "cash or tow 
cloth." Their home has not been ascertained. 

Artemas Ward, b at Charlton, Mass., 23 April, I7S7. son of 
Benjamin and Mary (Oaks) Ward, m with Hannah Perry, of 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 12/ 



Sturbridge, Mass., and dwelt at Charlton till after two of their 
children, and. possibly more, were born, "then rennoved to the 
state of New York." (See the Ward Genealogy, pp. 53 and 96). 
He was a hatter, and before the 4th of July, 1800, had settled on 
the east side of the road, opposite where Dea. Asa Ball now 
lives, on seventy-five acres of land, in the west part of lot 336, 
which he soon afterward sold, with a log house thereon, to Wil- 
liam Dudley. He then mOved to the northwest quarter of lot 
265, now in Newark Valley, and built a small house just where 
the railway now lies,. as the road then was nearly twenty rods 
further east than it is now, and his house was on the west side of 
the road. This place he sold, as early as 1808, to the Rev.. Jere- 
miah Osborn, who added to the small house then on i^ the house 
of two stories which James Williams afterward moved to its 
present site; west of the present road, where Dwight Waldo 
afterward lived. He then lived for a time in Bement and Wil- 
son's mill-house, after which he returned to Massachusetts with 
his family, and settled near Spencer, perhaps at Charlton. It has 
been impossible to find a full account of his children, as follows : 

I. Ly'dia, b at Charlton, Mass., 4 Nov., 1789. 

II. Ruth, b at Charlton, Mass., 24 March, 1791. 

III. Daniel. IV. Delia. 

V. Ward, who was deformed by spinal disease ; and this 

may have been the child who died 20 Aug., 1807. 

VI. JWard, b 31 Aug., 1808. 

Elijah H. Saltmarsh began to board with John Brown, 15 
April, 1800. He kept a little store just below the Isaac Brown 
house, and made potash on the bank of the creek just west of 
where Mr. Brown's widow and children have lived. Among Mr. 
Brown's charges was one, 10 June, 1800, for boarding Mr. Moore, 
Ball, and others. As he was not in the tax- list for 1802, he prob- 
ably made a short stay in town, and probabl)- was never a house- 
holder there. 

John Saltmarsh appears in John Brown's book, 4 Dec, 1800, and 
brought a suit against " Jincks Angell, and B. Andrus," in Aug., 
1801. '•-'' 

William Gardner came from Connecticut about 1800. At one 
time he attended the grist-mill of Bement & Wilson, in Newark 
Valley, and he sometimes extracted teeth. He m with Polly Gas- 
ton, and settled on the north side of the road, on the northeast 
quarterof lot 419, where he died in June, 1816. She joined the 
church at Newark Valley, 6 July, 1817, was dismissed 12 Jan., 



128 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

1823, with several others, and two days later, was one of the con- 
stituent members of the church at Richford. She died at the 
house of her son William, 11 Sept., 1848. Their children were: 
I. William. II. Polly, m with Jacob Burghardt. 

III. Achsah, m with John Rees Burghardt. 

IV. Miriam, m with Ransom Rich, and second with Edward 
Newton Chapman. 

V. John Gaston, VI. Lucy Butler. 

- Joseph Waldo was born at Windham, Conn., 5 Oct., 1755, son 
of Zacheus and Talitha (Kingsbury) Waldo ; was a physician and 
surgeon, served in that capacity for some time in the revolution- 
ary war; married 17 July, 1788, with Ann Bliss, who was born in 
Springfield, Mass., in April, 1769. She was familiarly known as 
Nancy. They dwelt for a few years in West Stockbridge, Mass., 
then moved to Richmond, Mass., where he joined the Congre- 
gational church, in Aug., 1794. He afterward moved to Lisle, N. 
Y., and thence, in October, 1800, to Berkshire, where he settled 
on the south 173 acres of lot 304, which he bought 8 Nov., 1802, 
and built thereon, in 1806, an elegant house for the time, in which 
he spent the remainder of his life. He dwelt previously on the 
west side of the road, a little south of where the school-house 
now stands, in a small framed house, which he sold for fi^ty dol- 
lars, 23 May, 1808, to Henry Ball, who moved it up to Berkshire 
village. He was, for many years, the only physician in the val- 
ley, north of Owego, and had a very large practice. He was 
one of the founders of the "First Church in Tioga," 17 Nov., 1803, 
and was dismissed 5 July, 1833, to become one of the constituent 
members of the Congregational church in Berkshire. He en- 
joyed in a remarkable degree, the esteem and confidence of the 
community. She died 14 Sept., 1836. He died 13 Feb., 1840. 
Their children were : 

I. Mary, b 10 March, 1790, m with Joseph Waldo, 2d. 

II. Nancy Ann, b at West Stockbridge, Mass., 10 Dec. 1791, 
m with Solomon Leonard. 

/ III. Joseph Talcott, b at Richmond, Mass., 28 Aug., 1794, a 
physician and surgeon, m in Jan., 1827, with Maria Belcher, who 
died 23 Feb., 1830, and he m (2d), 19 Sept., 1833, with Hannah 
B. Belcher, and d in Berkshire, 4 March, 1857. 

. Nathaniel Ford, b 30 March, 1768, son of James and Rachel 
(Backus) Ford, married 23 April, 1795, with Caroline Rees, who 
was born 24 Jan., 1777. They settled in Richmond, Mass., and 
joined the church there in Jan., 1796. They came to Berkshire 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 29 

in February, 1801, and settled on the north half of lot 304, on the 
same spot now occupied by Mr. Ball. They were constituent 
members of the First Church of Tioga 17 Nov., 1803, and he was 
elected its first deacon 4 April, 1805. They were dismissed 21 
June, 1833, and were among the founders of the Congregational 
Church of Berkshire. He died 22 March, 1858, aged ninety 
years; she died 23 June, 1859. "Their lives and examples are 
their best eulogies." Their children were: 

I. Caroline, b at Richmond, Mass., i May, 1796, m with Wil- 
liam Henry Moore. 

II. Nancy, b at Richmond, Mass., 21 Aug., 1797, m with Eldad 
Post. 

III. Maria, b at Richmond, Mass., 23 July, 1800, difd at Cata- 
tonk, N. Y., unmarried, 10 June, 1861. 

IV". Rachel, b at Berkshire, 5 June, 1803, died in LenOx, Mass. 

V. Lucinda, b at Berkshire, 27 Aug., 1805, m with Harris 
Jewett, and died at Catatonk, N. Y., in July, 1868. 

VI. James Hobart, ,b at Berkshire, 26 Sept., 1807, m 29 April, 
183s, with Abigail Weeks Cook.P' lie died 29 May, 1854, without 
children, and she died at Chicago, 111., 24 Nov., 1874, and was 
buried in Berkshire. 

VII. Nathaniel, b at Berkshire, 11 Sept., 1809, died 4 Dec, 
1 809. 

VIII. Katharine, bat Berkshire, 30 March, 1812, m with Dr. 
Levi Farr, of Greene, N. Y., and m (2nd) with William Anner, 
of Harlem, and afterward lived at Binghamton, N. Y. 

Col. Absalom Ford, b 8 Dec, 1760, elder brother of Dea. 
l^jTathaniel Ford, dwelt also in Berkshire. He died 11 Feb., 1845, 
aged eighty-four years. His wife, Zeriah, died ,19 March, 1826, 
aged sixty-nine years. They were probably not here earlier than 
1820. 

William Dudley was probably in Berkshire as early as 1801. 
His name is in the tax list for 1802. He bought of Artemas 
Ward severity-five acres of land in the south third of lot 336, and 
settled in a log house, near the west end of the lot, on the west 
bank of the creek, directly east of where Dea. Asa Ball now 
lives. He afterward built a small framed house opposite where 
Dea. Asa Ball now lives. His first wife was Abigail Hovey, 
daughter of Azel and Jemima (Phelps) Hovey. Some people 
have thought that she died in Connecticut, but Mrs. Jerusha 
(Harmon) Watson, who was her niece, testified that she died in 
Berkshire, and was the first woman who was buried in the 



I30 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Brown cemetery. He went back to Connecticut, and married a 
second wife, whose name has not been found. His name appears 
in John Brown's account book 13 Dec, 1805, and about that time 
he left home with a drove of mules, and died away from home, 
The council that ordained the Rev. Jeremiah Osborn, the first 
pastor of the First Church in Tioga, now Newark Valley, met at 
the house of the Widow Dudley 18 Feb., 1806, and she returned 
to Connecticut between that time and April, 1806. The children 
of William and Abigail (Hovey) Dudley were: 

I. Ruth, who kept her father's house after the death of her 
mother, till his second marriage, after which she taught school. 

n. Doddridge, settled in the Genesee county. HI. Alanson. 

IV. Chester, went South with his father to drive mules, , 
and died away from home, about the same time that his father 
died. 

Joseph Freeman was brought up in Richmond, Mass., by Vine 
Branch, his father having died before his birth. He married 
with Eunice Gaston, daughter of John and Miriam (Northrop) 
Gaston, of Richmond, and came to Berkshire early in 1802, but 
owned no land till 1814, when he bought a small place west of 
where Joseph Talcott Leonard lived in i88i. He had, in the 
meantime, spent one year in Sullivan, Madison Co., N. Y. He 
hung himself in July, 1832, while in a delirious state. She died 
at Covert, N. Y. Their children, were : 

I. Eunice Maria, died unmarried. 

II. Rufus Branch, died in Illinois about 1847. 

III. Gilbert Gaston, b 23 Apg., 1808, and lives at Berkshire 
with his daughter, Mrs. William T. Shaw. 

IV. Lucy Ann, baptized at Newark Valley, 24 Dec, 1828, ro 
with Elmon Daniels, and died at Trumansburgh, N. Y. 

V. Henry Barnes, b at Sullivan, N. Y., about 1812, was living 
at Gait, 111., in 1877. 

VI. Harriet Elizabeth, b at Berkshire, m with Willis D. Hor- 
ton, of Covert, N. Y., and died there. 

VII. Ruth Matilda, b at Berkshire, died there when about two 
years old. 

Nathan Ide married at Berkshire, 21 Oct., 1802, with Mrs. 
Sally Doud. She was a daughter of Joseph Gleazen. One of 
their children was born 4 Feb., 1810. Mr. Ide died before Dec, 
1820, at which time his widow was living on lot 380, just south 
of the house of Eleazer Lyman. 

Daniel Carpenter was born at Stockbridge, Mass., Z,^^^.,^??^^^ 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 131 

son of Abner and Lydia, (Brown) Carpenter ; was in Berkshire 
as early as April, 1803, and possibly a year earlier, and settled 
near the centre of lot 302, which his deceased brother, John Car- 
penter, had selected for his home. He went back to Massachu- 
setts, and married at Becket, 10 March, 1807, with Ruth Snow, 
■daughter of Levi and Lydia (Rudd) Snow. He came again to 
Berkshire that spring alone, and she joined him in October, 1807. 
He died on this farm 2 June, 1855. His children were: 

I. Lydia, b 22 Dec, 1807, m with Alexander Maples. 
n. Mary, b 21 Sept., 1810, m with Fowler Haight. 

HL Sylvia, b 6 Aug., 1812, m with Thomas Goldsmith Haight. 

IV. Martha, b 9 March, 1815, m with Gideon Sipley. 

V. John.b 5 Jan., 1818, m with Amanda Masten, and settled at 
East Maine, N. Y. * 

VI. Abner Dewey, b 18 Aug., 1820, went to St. Louis, Mo., in 
1844, and has not been heard from since 1847. 

VIL Caroline, b i Feb., 1823, m with Edward Herrick, of Can- 
dor, N. Y. 

Vin. Daniel D., b 20 Nov., 1825, died 9 Dec, 1846. 

IX. Andrew Jackson, b 5 Nov., 1828, m with Jerusha Cortright 
and settled in Michigan. 

X. Edward Snow, b 15 Aug., 1831, m with Climeha Ann Haw- 
iey, and lives in Ithaca . N.Y. 

XI. George, b 19 May, 1834, m with Louisa Freeman; and m 
(2d) Frances Scott. He settled on his father's homestead. 

Samuel Collins, b at Guilford, Conn., 11 Aug., 1768, son of 

Samuel and (Cook) Collins, m 22 Oct., 1793, with Betse y 

Bishop, who was born at Guilford, 4_Sept^iJ[2Z4. daughter of 
Nathaniel and Ruth (Bartlett) Bishop. They came to Berkshire 
in 1805, and settled on the north part of lot 376, where Mrs. Albert 
Collins now lives. He built his new home in 1808. He died 4 
July, 1840, of consumption, after having repeatedly foretold that 
he should die on that day. She died i Aug., 1864, aged nearly 
ninety years. Children : 

I. . Semanthe, b at the old Collins homestead in North Guilford, 
Conn., 7 Sept., 1794, m with Hon. David Williams. 

II. Addison, .b at Lenox, Mass., 29 March 1796, m with Sabrina 
Ball, moved to Rochester, N. Y., where he practiced law ; went 
thence to Hadley, Will Co., 111., where he died 27 March, 1867. 

III. Horatio, b at Lenox, Mass., 2 July, 1799, m with Emily Ball. 

IV. Eliza, b at Lenox, Mass., 25 Jan. 1804, m with Theodore 
Hart, a merchant of Virgil, N. Y., and removed to Canandaigua. 



132 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

V. Nathaniel Bishop, b at Berkshire, 8 July, 1806, m with 
Abby Ball, and (2d) with Candace Harrington, and died in Berk- 
shire. 

VI. Frederick, b 29 June, 1812, m with Nancy Mason White, 
and settled in Hadley, 111. 

VII. Albert, b 16 July, 1816, m with Mary Ann Rightmire, 
daughter of James Rightmire, and died in Berkshire, on the 
homestead of his father. 

Noah Lyman, b at Durham, Conn., about Dec, 1773, son of 
Noah and Eleanor Lyman, married 12 Nov., 179S, with Lucy 
Bishop, daughter of Nathaniel and Ruth (Bartlett) Bishop, of 
Richmond. She was born at Guilford, Conn., 4 Sept., 177 4. 
They dwelt in Richmond till the beginning of 1805, when they 
came to Berkshire, and settled in a log house on the south part 
of lot 416, of which he owned one hundred acres. This house 
stood about two rods west of the site afterward occupied by the 
Brookside Seminary. The following letter, which she wrote in 
this house, gives such a lively description of the pleasures of her 
humble home in the wilderness, and such a feeling account of the 
interest which the settlers felt in the welfare and pleasure of each 
other, as to make it exceedingly valuable to the reader of the 
present time : 

Tioga, Feb. 14th, 1807. 
" Dear Parents : 

I have this minute put my three children to bed, and you 
would suppose the}' were in good health, if you knew hqw merry 
they are. Nancy acts like a dunce, and the other two laugh at 
it — anything if they are but pleasant. I wish )'Ou could see the 
inside of my cottage this evening, it looks quite agreeable, a 
charming fire, the corners full of wood, a clean hearth, and, to 
complete the picture, the great Black Dog that Den loves so well 
is asleep on the floor. We have had a good visit from Brother 
Nat. and Major Hyde, with their wives ; they staid three days 
and we were all together most of the time, and I do not know 
when we have spent our time more agreeably. We' have also 
had a visit from Judge Patterson and his wife. You know our 
manner of visiting, when a friend comes the whole circle is formed, 
the news soon spread, invitations were sent and in a short time 
the whole band were at Mr. W's, [Ransom Williams.] 

" Esqr. Patterson came himself and carry* us down in his sleigh. 
Betsey [herjwiiLSislsr, Mrs. ColUns] is complaining of the Rheu- 
matism this winter and is quite lame part of the time, but not so 
as to prevent her doing more than 3 well woman should. Susa 
[Susanna Scott] is still with her. My own health has been better 
and I began' to think that I should soon be well, but the last week 
has convinced me that it is the same crazy frame yet, it is no disap- 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. I33 

pointment, I have not the promise of g^ood health a moment, nor 
do I wish it, unless it is His will, who has. the power to give it, if 
best for me. I hope however that I am not wholly unthankful, 
that I am for the most of the time pretty comfortable and able to 
take care of my family. 

"Our friend Jerusha [the wife of David Williams, who died 2 
April, 1807,] is descending the hill. She is evidently in a con- 
firmed consumption.- I do not know what she thinks herself. 
Her husband is not willing any person should tell her the danger 
she is in for fear of depressing her spirits — mistaken tenderness I 
think, and unfriendly kindness tho' well meant; how is it possible 
that any person can see so near a friend going down to the Grave 
without warning them of, the great change "th^t awaits them? 
Will the shock be greater now than at the hour of death ? We 
should not be surprised if she should not live a month, and yet 
nobody has ever said one word to her with regard to her future 
state. I asked her husband if he knew her thots respecting her 
situation, he said he did not, but that he evaded the question 
when she enquired of him whether he thot she would ever get 
well. I told him I knew it was a painful task, but it might be the 
source of great consolation hereafter — he made no reply, and I 
said no more, but my mind was not at ease. What if poor Beriah . 
[the writer's brother, Beriah Bishop, who died 17 Aug. 1805, of 
consumption] had been neglected, how should we have felt? I 
cannot think but Mr. Williams will soon alter his sentiments, I 
hope he will. 

" It is likely Mrs. Griffing is released from her sufferings and 
at rest, poor woman, she has lived a life of sorrow. Give our 
love to our good friends at Richmond, and believe us your affec- 
tionate children LucY Lyman." 

" Mother Hovey sends her best I^ove with many thanks for the 
fruit." 

Superscribed, "Nathaniel, Bishop, Esqr., Richnaond." 

He sold his farm in Berkshire about .1814, to Asahel Royce, and 
moved to Rawson Hollow, where he died 18 Feb., 1815. His 
last work had been to make a coffin for one of his neighbors, who 
had died of the same disease, pleurisy, which seemed then to be 
epidemic in that place. She married (2d) with Asa Bement. The 
children of Noah and Lucy (Bishop) Lyman were: 

I. Dennis, b at Richmond, Mass., 2 Feb., 1797, died 4 Aug., 
1824, unmarried. 

n. Ruth Bartlett, b at Richmond, Mass., 26 July, 1799, m with 
William B. Bement. 

in. Nancy Bishop, b at Richmond, Mass., 23 Jan., 1802, m 
with Sylvester Blair, of Cortland Village, N. Y.; and (2d) with 
John Judson, of Columbus, Warren Co., Penn., where she died. 



134 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



IV. Lavina, b at Richmond, Mass., 25 Oct., 1804, died at Berk- 
shire, 2 Aug., 1806. 

V. Henry, b at Berkshire, 23 or 25 Feb., 1811, m 11 Jan., 1837, 
with Laura Thurston, who still lives in Newark Valley; and died 
at Harford, N. Y., 17 Sept., 1843. 

VI. George, b at Berkshire, 14 Oct., 1813, resides at New 
Albany, Ind., a hearty, genial, pleasant man who is admired bv all. 

Capt. Heman Smith lived in Berkshire county, Mass., at one 
time in Stockbridge, at another in Lenox. He probably came to 
Berkshire in 1805, as it is known that he was here in January, 
1806, where his name appears on John Brown's account book. 
He settled on the farm now occupied by his great-grandson, Ar- 
thur E. Smith.on lot 418, and died there about July, 1812. His 
first wife was Miriam Moody, who died in Massachusetts. His 
second wife was Lucy Taylor, who also died in Massachusetts. 
He married (3d) with Almira Messenger, daughter of Martin 
and Margaret (Woodruff) Messenger. Capt. Smith's children 
were : 

I. Miriam, (by first marriage) m with" Clothier, of Sara- 
toga, N. Y. 

II. Samuel (by second marriage). 

III. Lucy, m Nathaniel Johnson. 

, ' IV. Mercy, m with Daniel Clark, of Danby, N. Y. 

V. Sarah. VI. Polly, m with Alden Baker, of Berkshire. 

VII. Heman, m with Clarissa Goodale. 

VIII. Lydia, m with Clothier, a brother of Miriam Smith's 

husband. 

IX. Clarissa, (by third marriage) m with Harry Cook, of 
Berkshire, son of Ephraim Cook. 

X. Eunice, b at Lenox, Mass., 16 April, 1800, came to Berk- 
shire, with her parents, about 1805, and in 1806 was taken into 
the family of Dr. Joseph Waldo, of Berkshire, and dwelt there 
till her marriage with Ezekiel Dewey, and still lives in Berk- 
shire, her good memory having furnislied the evidence of many 
historical facts. 

XI. Horace, went South. 

XII. Dolly, m with Thomas Curran, and settled in Caroline, 
near Slaterville, N. Y. 

Henry Griffin, born at Guilford, Conn., about 1780, son of 
Joseph and Jemima (Vaill) Griffin, a master mariner, came to 
Berkshire about 1804, or 1805, and settled on the north half of 
lot 385, which he bought of Azel Hovey. He built on it a small 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 35 

framed house, which Deodatus Royce moved across the road to 
make room for his brick house, and afterward made- a wagon 
house of it. He m about 1808, with Anna Leonard, and after: 
the war of 1812, finding his life in the woods distasteful, he 
moved his family, to N^ew YorK city, and resumed seafaring.. He 
died on a voyage between San Domingo and Porto Rico, under 
circumstance^ which led his friends to believe that he was mur-/ 
dered. Her father brought her and her children back to his own 
house. She . afterward went to dwell with her .son, at Wood-' 
stock, 111., where she died 23 Nov., 1850. Their children were : 

I. Julia Ann Colt, b 2 May, 1809, m with Elijah Wilson, of 
Newark Valley. 

n. George Henry, b 23 March, 1812, m with Mary Butler, of 
Manlius, N. Y., and settled at Woodstock, 111., where he died in 
1872. 

III. Franklin, b 20 Sept., 1814, m Miss :. Thompson, of 

Crystal Lane, 111., went to Colorado, and died, therein 1879. 

IV. Amanda Leonard, b in New York city, 20 Sept., 1817, m 
with Dwight. . , 

Osmyn Griffin, brother of Henry, came. to Berkshire with him, 
and afterward went to Canada, where he died. 

John Griffin, brother of Henry and Osmyn, came with them to 
Berkshire, and remained two or three years, then returned to: 
Richmond, Mass., became a Methodist, and married i Oct., 1808, 
with Lydia Redfield. He afterwards preached for man}' years 
in the M. E. church. He returned to Berkshire . after his mar- 
riage, and the first three of his twelve children-^re born here. 

Peleg Randall was in Berkshire, as early as April, 1803. Peleg 
Randal "of Tioga," bought 120 acres of the south part of lot 
418, in 1805, for $360.00, of Levi Chapin and Jerusha, his wife; of 
Wethersfield, Conn. He settled on the west part of his farm, on 
the southwest side of the road to Rawson Hollow, opposite the 
road which now leads north into the town of Richford. He was 
born 9 May, 1775, and married with Eunice Kimball, who was 
born in April, 1771, and and died 22 March, 1856, aged eighty-i 
four years, and eleven months. He died 26 March, 1856. Their 
children were : 

I. Eunice, m with Nathaniel Boyer, and moved to Ovid, N. Y. 

II. Chester, m with Ann Eliza Whitaker, who was born about 
7 July, 1810, and died 30 Dec, 1843, at the birth of her first child, 
who was buried with her ; and he married (2d) with Hannah. 
Smith, daughter of Samuel and Theodosia (Dewey) Smith. 

10* 



136 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



III. Nathan Peleg, settled at East Troy, Wis. 

IV. David Kimball, died 2 Oct., 1839, aged 29 years and nine 
months. 

Joseph Belcher, b at Preston, Conn., 25 June, 1764, m 2 March,. 
1786, with Lucy Hall, who was born in 1767, daughter of Capt. 
John and Jemima (Bell) Hall. Her father, then of Castleton, Vt, 
was killed by the British, 6 July, 1777, the day before the battle 
of Hubbardton. They dwelt on his father's homestead in Pres- 
ton, till the latter part of June, 1805, then moved,- passing through 
Albany 4 July, 1805, reaching Berkshire a few days later, and 
settled' on the north half of lot 297, where they died ; she 9 Sept., 
1812, aged forty-five years ; he, 5 Jan., 1819. Their children 
were : 

I. Lydia, b 2 Aug., 1786, m with Alexander Gaston. 

II. Jonathan, b 8 Feb., 1788, m in 1808, with Betsey Bement, 
and settled in Newark Valley, where they died ; she, 12 June, 
1845 ; he, 7 Jan., 1853. 

III. Abigail, b 31 Jan., 1790, m with Daniel Gilbert. 

IV. Lucy, b 28 Dec, 1891, m with John W. Bessac. 

V. Joseph, b 10 Jan., 1794. 

VI. Frederick, b 2 or 21 May, 1798, m 3 Jan., 1821, with 
Rebecca Short Brown. They dwelt in Richford till 1844, then 
moved to Woodstock, 111. 

VII. Elijah, b 5 June, 1800, settled in Newark Valley, where he 
died II Dec, 1879, having survived three wives. 

VIII. Maria, b 15 July, 1802, m with Dr. Joseph Talcott 
Waldo. 

IX. Esther, b 8 Aug., 1804, died at Berkshire, 26 July, 1820. 

X. Betsey, b 10 Oct., 1806, m with Orlando Warren, of New 
York, and still Hving, July, 1887. 

XI. Susan, b 13 June, 1808, d 10 Feb., 1829. 

XII. Harriet, b 2 Sept., 1812, m with Clark Waldo. 

Elijah Belcher, b at Preston, Conn., 18 March, 1772, son of 
Moses and Esther (Rudd) Belcher, m with Lydia Clark, daughter 
of Pharez and Olive (Jewett) Clark, of Preston. They dwelt for 
some years at Cherry Valley, N. Y., and she died there. He ra 
(2d) with Eliza Putnam, daughter of the Rev. Aaron Putnam, of 
Pomfret, Conn. In July_, 1805, they settled in Berkshire, on lot 
297, about fifty rods west of the road, and midway between his 
brother, Joseph Belcher, and his brother-in-law, John W. Bessac- 
She died suddenly, 31 Oct., 1807, in her forty-third year. He 
married 3d with Lydia Burbank, daughter of Timothy and Han- 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 37 

nah (Ripley) Burbank, and sister of Col. Christopher Burbank, 
of Newark Valley. He died 20 Sept., 1849, aged T] years. His 
widow died 28 Sept., 1850, aged sixty-seven years. There is no 
doubt that his name should have been in the census of Dec, 
1820, instead of Jonathan Belcher, which was a clerical error. 
His children were two by the first wife, two by the second, and 
one by the third, viz : 

I. Olive, married with Dr. David N. Richards, and m (2d) 
with John Fish, of Augusta, N. Y. 

II. Lydia Clark, m 25 Feb., 1821, with Daniel Phillips.. 

III. Moses, settled and died at Cherry Valley, N. Y. 

IV. Aaron Putnam, m with Harriet Ball. 

V. Hannah Burbank, b 19 March, 1813, m with JDr. Joseph 
Talcott Waldo. 

Samtiel Hutchinson, b in Hebron, Cdnn., 8 Nov., 1769, m 4 
Nov., 1795, with Abigail Brainerd, and dwelt in Canaan, N. Y., 
till 1805 or 1806,' then moved to Berkshire, where he built a log 
house on the west side of the road, just above the bridge, oppo- 
site the brick house which Col. John B. Royce has occupied for 
nearly sixty years. After a few years he moved over the East 
hills, and settled in the valley of the Wilson creek, near the home 
of his wife's father and brother, and both died there ; she, 18 
April, 1843, he, 17 Sept., 1854. Their children were: 

I. Harvey, b 13 Oct., 1797, m in 1830 with Sarah Torry. 

II. Irena, b 24 Aug., 1799, m with John Clark. 

III. Orlando, b 25 July, 1801, d in Berkshire 5 May, 183 1. 

IV. • Polly, b 18 Dec, 1803, m 10 Jan., 1838, with Jedediah 
Leathe Robinson, who died in Richford, N. Y., 28 Aug., 1842, 
and she m (2nd) 8 Oct., 1843, with his brother, Thomas Ams- 
dell Robinson. 

V. Williams, b in Berkshire, 17 April, 1806, m 24 Dec, 183S, 
with Rhoda Maria Benton, who was b in Lenox, Mass., 7 Feb., 
1810, daughter of Erastus and Elizabeth (Paul) Benton. 

VI: Orrin, b 20 Oct., 1808, d 5 March, 1828. 

VII. Layinia, b 21 Nov., 1810, m with John Hobart Pringle. 

VIII. John, b 8 Aug., 1814, m with Alzina Heath, and settled 
at Richford. 

Samuel Johnson, b at Preston, Conn., 27 Oct., 1757, son of 
Joseph and Abigail (Belcher) Johnson, m there 215 Oct., 1781, 
with Eunice Park, who was born there 20 Aug., 1763, daughter 
of Moses and Sarah (Brewster) Park. They dwelt at Preston 
till after the birth of their eldest child, then at New Marlborough, 



138 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Mass., till 1803, and at West Stockbridge, Mass.. till April, 1806, 
when, with three of his children, Cassandra, Sally and Elijah, he 
came to Brown's Settlement. His wife and other children left 
West Stockbridge on Wednesday, 13 June, 1806, two days after 
" the great eclipse." They dwelt one year in the small framed 
house which William Dudley's widow had just vacated. In the 
spring of 1807 he moved to Newark Valley, having bought of 
Isaac Rawson the place where Egbert Bement now lives, in 
which he dwelt till 181 5, when he bought of Jonas Muzzy a farm 
of fifty-five acres, on the south part of lot 58, on which they 
died; she, 2 Jan., 1833 ; he, i Sept., 1845, ii^ his eighty-eighth 
year. Their children were : 

I. Abigail, b 5 Jan., 1784, digd 2 Jan., 1785. 

II. Cassandi-a, b 17 Nov.,n88^ m with Isaac Ball. 

III. Abigail, b 17 May, 1788, m with Spencer Spaulding. 

IV. Sally, b 29 July, 1790, m with Chester Goodale. 

V. Eunice, b 12 June, 1792, m with Moses Spaulding. 

VI. Elijah, b 15 June, 1794, m 10 Jan., 1818, with Lucina 
Hooper, who was born at West Stockbridge, 17 May, 1798, 
daughter of Capt. Elisha and Ruth (Newell) Hooper. They 
dwelt for many yearsat Flemingville, then moved to Flint, Mich., 
where he died6 Sept., 1847. She married (2nd) with Dea. William 
B. Bement, and returned to Newark Valley. 

VII. Cinderella, b i Sept., 1796, married 24 Dec, 1817, with 
Solomon Jones. 

VIII. Nancy, b 31 July, 1798, m with Harvey Rich. 

IX. Moses Park, b 6 Aug., 1802, died unmarried at the home- 
stead of his father probably i June, 1875, as he was found dead 
in his bed the next morning. 

John Gregory, b at Danbury, Conn., about 1765, m with 
Rachel Benedict, daughter of Josiah and Sarah Benedict, of 
Danbury, where she was born about 1767. They settled in Lenox, 
Mass., as early as 1791, and moved to Berkshire in the spring of 
1806, arriving there on Friday, 9 May, 1806. They settled on 
the south half of lot 385, and built the house which has since 
been occupied by Horatio Collins and his son, Junius Collins. 
Here they died ; she, 30 Dec, 1838, aged seventy-one years ; he, 14 
Dec, 1849, aged eighty-four years. They were buried at Rich- 
ford, and his grave-stone calls him "John Gregory the 4th," 
which probably indicates that his father, grandfather and great- 
grandfather each bore the name of John. [See the Benedict 
Genealogy, p. 287.J Their children were : 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



139 



I. Henry, b at Lenox, Mass. , 15 July, 1791, a salesman, mar- 
ried 10 Feb., i8i8, with Abigail Huntington, and settled in 
Ithaca, N. Y., where they died; he, in May, 1824, aged thirty- 
three years, she, 26 April; 1880, after a widowhood of nearly 
fifty-six years. 

II. Electa, b at Lenox, INlass., 21 March, 1793. 

III. Lucy, b at Lenox, Mass., in 179S, died at Berkshire in 
February, 1865, aged seventy-one years, buried at Richford. 

IV. Eli Benedict, b at Lenox, Mass., 20 Oct., 1797, a trader, 
died at Berkshire, unmarried, in March, 1845', aged forty-eight 
years, and was buried in Richford. 

V. Eliza Ann, b at Lenox, Mass., dwelt in Berkshire till the 
death of her brother, Eli B., and after that with her aister-in-Iaw, 
and nephew, in Ithaca, N. Y. 

Ichabod Brainard was born in Haddam, Conn., 19 Aug., 1749; 
m in Richmond, Mass., in 1770, with Susanna Williams, who 
was born in Colchester, Conn., 28 Sept., (old style), 1751, daugh- 
ter of John and Abigail (Crocker) Williams. He served in the 
war of the revolution. They settled in Canaan, N. Y-, and on a 
Sunday in the latter part of June, 1773, they went to- church, 
and returning, found their house and all it contained entirely 
consumed by fire. In 1807 they came to Berkshire, and settled 
on lot 348-373, in the valley of Wilson creek, arriving at their 
new home on the eighteenth of June. She died there 8 April, 
1813. He died at Cortlandville, N. Y., 20 Aug., 1833. Their 
children were : 

I. Abigail, b 8 June, 1771, m with Samuel Hutchinson. 

II. Alice, b 26 April, 1773, d 26 Sept., 1797. 

III. Susanna, b 15 April, 1775, d 16 Aug., 1797. 

IV. James, b 5 June, 1777, m 26 Jan. ,1803, with Abigail Welch, 
and died in Caroline, N. Y., 17 Oct., 1856, and she d at Wells- 
borough, Pa., 25 July, 1861. 

V. Clarissa, b 21 March, 1780, died in Berkshire. 

VI. Williams, b in 1783, died in 1787. 

VII. Ichabod, b 4 Feb., 1785, m 4 Feb., 1805, with OrphaCdok, 
who was born in Colebrook, Conn., and they dwelt in Berkshire, 
in the same place with his father, settling there at the same time, 
and afterward moved to Cooperstown, N. Y., and he had chil- 
dren, I. Edward, b 13 Sept., 1807. 2. Jared, b 23 June, 1809. 
3. Lewis Nash, b II Jan., 1812. 4. William Henry, b 30 Jan., 1816, 
all in Bferkshire. 

VIII. David Williams, b 28 May, 1787, m 10 Aug., 181 1, at 



I40 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Lisle, N. Y., with Laura Parsons, and they dwelt for five years 
at Lisle, then settled at Cortlandville, N. Y., where they died, 
she 26 Dec, 1836, he 9 Oct., 1848. 

IX. Lydia, b 20 Aug., 1789, died in Berkshire, unmarried. 

X. Jireh, b 10 Aug., 1792, died 15 Nov., 1793. 

Isaac Goodale, b in Amherst, Mass., 16 Nov., 1755, son of Isaac 
and Ellen Goodale, m at Northampton, Mass,, 26 Aug., 1779, 
with Jemima Warner. They dwelt in Northampton and West- 
hampton till about 1797, and at Pittsfield, Mass., till 1808, then 
settled on Berkshire hill, on lot 378, at the angle of the road on 
the place now owned by Henry Payne, where she died 29 April, 
1 8 19, aged 62 years. He m (2d) with Sally (Whitney) Cobb, 
widow of Elijah William Cobb, and daughter of Asa Whitney. 
She was b about 1770, and died at Berkshire 13 June, 1825, aged 
60 years, according to her grave-stone ; but her age was proba- 
bly four or five years less than that. He m (3d) with Electa An- 
drews, who died in Richford, at the house of Joseph Belcher. 
He died on his farm at Berkshire, 23 Nov., 1834, aged 79 years. 
His children were : 

I. Isaac, b at Northampton, Mass., i Oct., 1780, was living in 
Richford in Dec, 1820, and afterward settled in Michigan. 

II. Huldah, born at Westhampton, Mass., 26 March, 1782, m 
with Samuel Smith, of Berkshire, and died there 5 July, 181 1. 

III. Susanna, b 26 July, 1784, m with Moses Stanley. 

IV. Eli, b 17 April, 1786, died in Ohio. 

V. Chester, b 7 Dec, 1787, m with Sally, daughter of Sam- 
uel Johnson, settled on his father's homestead, and moved about 
1842 to Genesee, Mich. 

VI. Electa, b 22 Jan., 1790, m with John Ay res. 

VII. Clarissa, b 19 April, 1792, m with Heman Smith, and, 
after his death, with Nathaniel Johnson. 

VIII. Spencer, b 20 July, 1794, m with Mary Gorsline, and 
dwelt for some years in Newark Valley, afterward near Buffalo, 
N. Y., where he died. 

IX. Moses, b 2 Aug., 1796, settled in Michigan. 

X. Naomi, b 4 Aug., 1793, at Pittsfield, Mass., and two years 
later, on the death of her aunt, her name was changed to Abigail 
Goodale. She m with Asa Curtis, of Maine, N. Y., and (2d) with 
Stephen Butler. 

XI. Maria, name changed to Sally, b 8 Jan., 1801, m with Eber 
Johnson, of Richford, and settled in Michigan. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. I4I 

XII. William Warner, b i Dec., 1801, settled in Missouri. He 
m with Rachel Goodale. 

Capt. Bill Torry and his household came from Durham, Greene 
■county, N. Y. It is said that he was a soldier of the revolution- 
ary war. He dwelt for some years in the log house which Noah 
Lyman built, about two rods west of where the Brookside Semi- 
nary afterward stood. In 1820 he lived on lot 224, where Capt. 
Edward N. Chapman afterward lived, in Newark Valley. He 
went back to Berkshire and lived where Dr. J. Talcott Waldo 
built his new house. It is remembered that the neighbors " made 
a bee " one winter and drew about forty loads of green wood for 
him. At night he said, " Well, now ! you have brought me a 
great lot of green wood, and I wish you would go to the creek 
and catch a load of suckers for me to kindle it with ; " and after 
that he bought his wood. He was born in Durham, Conn., 6 
Oct., 1 761, baptized there, 28 Feb., 1762, son of Sarah Torry, who 
owned the covenant at Durham, 6 Aug., 1758, and afterward mar- 
ried with Samuel Wilkinson. She moved, with her son, to Dur- 
ham, N. Y., and died there. He married with Mehitabel Bald- 
win, of Durham, Conn. They came to Berkshire 13 May, 1808, 
and for a few months dwelt in a log house just above where Sam- 
uel Collins was then building his new house, then tnoved to the 
large log house (where Nathaniel Bishop Collins afterward built 
his brick house) which Samuel Collins had first occupied on com- 
ing to town. He died in Berkshire, 15 April, 1852, in his 91st 
year. Their children were : 

I. Samuel, b in Durham, Conn., 15 Aug., 1787, m 11 Dec, 1816, 
with Sarah Durfee, who died 25 Aug., 1870. 

II. Delie, b about 1789, died i May, 1830, aged 40 years. 

III. Rhoda, b about 1791, died 3 Jan., 1854, in her 63d year, 

IV. William, b about 1793, died at Romulus, N. Y., 7 June, 
1852, and his wife, Lois, died 10 June, 1838, in her 37th year. 

V. John, b about 1795, m with Sophia Ann Collins, who was 
born 23 July, 1797, built the house opposite the M. E. church, and 
died there 28 Aug., 1880, in his 86th year, without children. 

VI. Sarah Wilkinson, b S June, 1797, ra with Harvey Hutchin- 
son, and died 8 June, 1886, aged 89 years and 3 days. 

VII. Seth Baldwin, died in Michigan. 

VIII. Patty Brown, b about 1801, died in Berkshire, 31 May, 
1 8 10, aged 9 years. 

IX. Betsey Baldwin, b at Durham, N. ,Y., 4'Aug., 1804, now 
resides in Berkshire. 



142 -TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Samiiel Torry lived on a farm on Strong brook, directly west 
of that of Luke B. Winship and Henry M. Ball. His wife joined 
the church in Stockbridge, Mass., in 1807, and at Newark Valley, 
€ July, 1817. He joined the church at Newark Valley, 3 April, 
183 1, and they were dismissed 5 July, 1833, to the new church at 
Berkshire. Their children were: 

I. Julia, bap. 11 March, i8i8. 

II. Delia, bap. 2 Jan., 1820, m with Asa Witter. 

III. Elizabeth Baldwin, b 20 Dec, 1820, bap. i July, 1821. 

IV. John, bap. 6 Oct., 1822. 

V. David Baldwin, bap. 3 Aug., 1828. 

■ Seth Akins, b at Durham, Conn., 25 July, 1762, and baiptized 
the same day, son of Robert and Sarah Akins, was a mariner, 
served in the war of the revolution, was wounded and captured 
on a vessel, confined for some time in a prison-ship in New York 
harbor, and carried to his grave the scars made by the bayonets 
of the enemy. For his services he received a pension in the latter 
years of his life. A fracture of the leg, unskillfully treated, left 
it an inch shorter than the other. He married 8 May, 1786, with 
Content Rossiter, who died 17 May, 1789. He married (2d) 26 
Sept., 1790, with Sarah Griswold, who died in Berkshire, 15 Aug., 
1843. ^6 dwelt for a time in Berkshire county. Mass:, afterwards 
in Durham, Greene county, N. Y., and early in the present cen- 
tury came to the west part of Berkshire, and finally settled in a 
log house east of the road, a little north of where the cheese fac- 
tory now stands, on the north half of lot 380, where Stephen H, 
Boyer now owns. In 1 8 1 2 he built a framed house near the south- 
west corner of Mr. Boyer's orchard, and dwelt there till about 
1833, when they went to live on a part of the same farm, with his- 
son, Lyman P. Akins, at whose house he died 6 Sept., 1837. His 
sea-chest, more than a hundred years old, is carefully kept by one 
of his grandsons. His children were: 

I. Sarah, b 13 Dec, 1786, died 9 Jan., 1787. 

IL Seth Warner, b 7 July, 1791, died at Berkshire, 15 Aug.,. 
1825, unmarried. 

III. Content, b 29 March, 1793, was commonly called Tenty, 
married with Aaron Livermore, and died in Michigan, about 1868. 

IV. Lyman Parmalee, b 3 March, 1795, married in 1821, with 
Betsey, daughter of Eleazer Lyman. He was several times super- 
visor ot Berkshire, and twenty-four years in succession justice of 
the peace. He died without children, 15 Dec, 1884, sixty-three 
years after marriage; His widow still lives on the Akins home- 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. I45 



stead. They provided a good home' for several children of other 
people. 

V. Sally, b 19 March, [797, d 6 Oct., 1798. 

Vr. Robert, b 19 June, 1799, married about 1827, with Olive 
Leonard Ball, who died at Berkshire, 29 March, 1867, in her 66tb 
year. He died at Sheldrake, N. Y., in March, 1885. 

VII. William Henry, b in Berkshire county, Mass., i March, 
1804, married in May, 1827, with Eliza, daughter of Daniel Sur- 
dam, of Richfbrd. She died at Berkshire, 18 Jan., 1839. He 
married (2d) with Catharine House, of Dryden, N. Y., who is still 
living. He was a wheelwright, having learned his trade of Enoch 
S. Williams, of Newark Valley, and became a prolific inventor, 
Bomfe of his devices proving to be of importance and «alue, as the 
table and feeding devices for sewing machines, now in universal 
use, arid the permutation lock for safes and bank vaults. He died 
at Ovid, N. Y., 3 Jan., 1877. 

■ VIII. Charles Frederick, b 26 Marfch, 1807, married 10 Dec, 
183b, with Lodema Farnham Ball, who died 12 June, 1838, at 
Berkshire. He ma:rried (2d) with Lucy Semantha Dewey. He 
died in Berkshire, 17 June, 1842, and his widow married (2d) with 
John Rightmire, of Caroline, N. Y., and died 18 Jan.', 1854. 

Elijah William Cobb, b at Canaan, Conn., 24 Sept., 1765, son of 
Elijah and Amy (Lawrence) Cobb, lii at Salisbury, C6nn., 17 or 27 
Feb , 1786, with Sally Whitney, who was. born in' Cannan, Conn., 
about 1776, daughter of Asa Whitney, by his first wife. They dwelt 
in Canaan till 1802, then moved to Lendx, Mass., and thence, a few 
years later to Berkshire, settling on the farm now owned by 
Erasmus Legg, a mile east of Speedsville, where he died 12 Aug., 
1815, aged 53 years, according to his, grave stone, which makes 
the age two years too great. She m (2d) with Isaac Goodale. 
Elijah Cobb's children were : 

I. Joshua Whitney, b Nov., 1786, m in June, 1816, with Susan 
Doty, and died at. Elsie, Mich., 2 May, 1851. 

II. Permeha, b 18 or 20 Jan., 1791, m with Isaiah Gridley Barker, 
and died at Henrietta, N. Y., 11 Feb., 1830. 

III. Charilla Matilda, b 5 Nov., by town record, or 6' Dec, 1793, 
by family record, m with John Burnett, of Hampton, Conn., and 
died in Utica, N. Y., in Feb., 1864. 

IV. Daniel Johtis, b 18 Oct., (or Nov.) 1793, m with Charles 
Hoyt, and died in Darisville, Mich., 13 Nov., 1857. 

V. Lydia Edmunds, b 19 March, 1798, m with Thoinas Davis, 
in 1815, and died at Dryden, N. Y., 22 Oct., 1860. ' 



144 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

VI. Lyman, b i8 Sept., 1800, a teacher, m 7 April, 1822, with 
Harriet Chambers, of Caroline, N. Y., and died at Colesburgh, 
Penn., 20 Oct., 1864; was author of several school-books, which 
had a short run, as the)"^ were in opposition to the innovations 
which Noah Webster was making in the English language. 

VII. Nancy, b at Lenox, Mass., 19 Oct., 1B02, mat the house of 
Dea. Elijah Curtis, in Newark Valley, 19 Jan., 1826, with Asahel 
Jewett, and died at Richford, 27 June, 1836. 

VIII. Sarah Whitney, b at Lenox, Mass., 13 Nov., 1804, m 
with Thomas Preshow, and died at Colesburgh, Penn., in Feb., 
1869. 

Barnabas Manning, b at Scotland, in Windham, Conn.. 14 Sept., 

1769, son of Andrew and (Seabury) Manning, married 20 

Dec, 1792, with Estherr Belcher, who was born at Preston, Conn., 
31 March, 1770, daughter of Moses and Esther (Rudd) Belcher. 
They came to Brown's Settlement about 1810 or 181 1, and he 
bought seventy-five acres of land east of the road on the sooth 
side of lot 336, which had been owned by William Dudley ; and 
of Daniel Ball, seventy-five acres west of the road on the south 
side of lot 337 ; and of James Robbins, one hundred acres on 
the south part of lot 335, so that his farm of 250 acres extended 
the whole length of the three lots. He built the house on the 
west side of the road, where his son-in-law, Asa Ball, now dwells. 
His wife died 30 June, 1819, without children. He married (2d) 
17 Feb., 1820, with Phebe Lincoln, who was born at Western, now 
Warren, Mass., 7 Aug., 1791, daughter of Thomas and Lucy 
(Holbrook) Lincoln. He died 11 Feb., 1856, in his 87th year. 
She died 4 Dec. 1872. Their children were : 

I. Esther Maria, b 11 March, 182 1, m with Asa Ball, and died 
.15 May, 1887. 

II. Charles Seabury, b 25 Sept., 1822, m at Union, N. Y., 11 
Oct., 1848, with Mary Jane Gray, who was born at Binghamton, 
N. Y., 21 April, 1826, daughter of Arthur and Ann (Van Nanre) 
Gray. She died 26 March, 1887. 

III. Jane, b 17 Feb., 1824, m with Luther Andrews. He died 
7 Jan,, 1887. 

IV. Eliza, b 7 May, 1828, m 23 June, 1852, with George Henry 
Akins, and lives at Ovid, N. Y. 

V. Catharine Lincoln, b 2 Feb., 1831, m with George Andrews, 
who died 19 March, 1876. She died 8 Jan., 1881, without 
children. 

Asahel Royce, b at Lanesborough, Mass., 7 May, 1771. son of 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. I45 

Adonijah and Amy (Brush) Royce, m 22 Jan., 1792, with Sally 
Betsey Clark, who was born at Lanesborough, 29 June, 1772. 
About 1801 they moved to Richmond, Mass., where she joined 
the church, in April, 1808. They left Richmond 5 Feb., 1814, 
for Berkshire, and settled on the north half of lot 385, where his 
sonDeodatus afterward built his brick house. He also bought one 
hundred acres of Noah Lyman, on the south half of lot 416, on 
which he built the house now occupied by his grandson, J. Tal- 
cott Leonard, it having been moved to its present site, when he 
sold the grounds, in 1846, to the Rev. William Bradford, as a 
site for Brookside Seminary. In this house they settled about 
18 18, and died there; he, 18 March, 1847; she, 25 April, 1848. 
Their children were : ^ 

L Deodatus, b at Lanesborough, Mass., 28 Jan., 1793, m 25 
Dec, 1817, with Emily Bement, daughter of Asa Bement, of 
Newark Valley, was for many years a deacon of the Congrega- 
tional church in Berkshire, built the brick house where his father 
first settled; and in that house they died ; she, 5 Sept., 1875. 

IL John Brush, b at Lanesborough, Mass., 9 June, 1795, a wool- 
carder and cloth-dresser, taught school in Richmond, Mass., the 
winter that his father left there, took care of his father's cattle 
during the winter, and in May, 18 14, drove them to Berkshire, 
where he married, i Jan., 1823, with Amanda Leonard, daughter 
of Asa and Olive CChu'rchill) Leonard, began house-keeping on 
the morning after their marriage, in the log house on the west 
side of the way, above the bridge, and lived there till 1829, when 
he built the brick house in which he is yet living, at the age of 
ninety -two years. ' 

IIL Almon, b 15 April, 1797, died 8 Feb., 1799. 

IV. Haanah, b2i Dec, 1799, m with Louis Gigette Leonard. 

V. Amy, b 10 Jan., 1803, m with Charles West Cook. 

VI. Royce, a son, b i March, 1805, died 2 March, 1805. 

VII. Harriet Laminta, b 27 March, 1807, m with William Rus- 
sell Starr, of Ithaca, N. Y. 

VIII. Betsey Ann, b 9 April, 1810, m with Levi Ball. 

IX. Phebe Permelia, b 5 Nov., 1813, died 22 May, 1825. 
Notes to Census Table. — The names in the following table marked 

with a star have already been mentioned ; the others are referred 
to in the following notes, by corresponding numbers.: It may be 
well to state, also, that there were no unnaturalized foreigners, 
no blacks, and no one engaged in commerce in the town. The 
total population was 586. 



146 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



CENSUS OF BERKSHIRE. DECEMBER, 1820. 





No. Males htd Aoes. 


No. Fbiiai.es and Ages. 


j 
1 




Names. 


i 


i 

CD 

T-t 

B 


1— c 


i 

to 
00 

s 

CO 
1—1 


s 

CO 

iH 


id 

S3 

O 
iO 

S 

CO 

cq 


I 



r-i 

1 

a 


CO 

1-1 ■ 

s 
s 


.1 

-S 

CO 

iH 


S 


3 
1 

is 


5 


1. EoBwell H. Brown 


5 
3 

1 
1 

1 
3 

1 
1 

i 

1 
3 
1 

1 

1 
1 

3 
2 

2 
1 
3 
1 
2 
1 
2 
2 
3 
1 
2 

1 
1 
2 
2 
1 
2 
1 
1 
1 

2 
2 

2 


1 

2 
1 

2 

1 

2 

1 
1 

1 
2 

1 

2 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
2 


1 

1 
1 

2 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 


2 

1 

1 
1 

1 
2 

1 

. 1 

1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 

1 
2 
1 

1 

2 
2 

1 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 


2 
1 


1 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 


3 

2 
1 
3 

1 

4 
3 

3 

1 
3 
3 
2 

2 
2 

1 

2 
2 
2 
1 

1 
1 
1 
3 
1 
1 

1 

2 

3 
2 
1 
3 
2 
2 

3 
1 
1 
2 
2 
4 


1 
1 

2 

1 

2 

1 

1 

2 

2 
1 
1 

1 

1 

•- 

1 

1 
1 

2 

2 
2 
1 


3 

1 

1 

1 

2 
1 
2 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
3 

1 

2 

1 

1 
1 

1 
2 

1 

2 

1 

1 

1 
1 

1 
1 


1 
1 
1 

1 
1 

1 

1 
1 
1 

1 

1 


1 
1 

1 

1 

1 

1 

1 


2 

1 
2 

1 
3 

1 
1 

1 
3 

1 

1 
1 
2 
1 
3 
1 

5 
2 
2 
1 
3 
4 
2 
2 
1 
1 
3 

1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 
2 
1 

1 
2 
1 

1 
2 

3 
1 

1 

1 
1 




2. Jed Chapman 


3 


3. *Daniel Gleazen 




4. Jonathan Belcher 


2. 


5. John W. BcBsac 




6. Elisha Jenke 




7. Calvin Jenks 




8. Lnther Hamilton 




' 9. Joel Smith and Jesse Smith 
10. Ephralm Beniff 


a 


11. Samuel Osbom 




12. Schuyler Legg 




•13. Amos Peck 


I 


li. Daniel Jenks 

15. Kenben Legg 


16. Larned Legg 




17. *Daniel Carpenter 




18. Isaac Biinnel 




19. Samuel Haight 




20. Eleazer Lyman, Jr 

21. Thomas Keenv 




22. * Joseph Gleazen 




23. Thomas Bunting. 




24. Joseph Belcher 




25. William Whjting 




26. Eleazer Valentine 




27. William S. Smith.... 




28. *Isaac Goodale 




29. Stephen Butler : 




30. Alden Baker 




31. *ABa Leonard... 




32. *Solomon Leonard 


S 


33. John S. Thorp 


34. Isaac Hitchcock 




35. *Anua GrifSn 


1 
1 


36. Selick Paine 


37. WiUiam Moore 


38. AnfJrew TtAen 




39. Anna Collins 




40. John Avres '. 




41. Lyman Hull 




42. *Jesse Gleazen 




43. *Peleg Eandai 




44. *Polly Gardner 




45. Moses Stanley 


1 


46. Clarissa Smith 


47. Samuel Smith 




48. Hooker Bishop 




49. Cicero Barker 


2. 


50. Aaron Livennore 


51, Eleazer Lyman 




52. *Sarah Ide 




53. *8eth Akins. ... 




54. Elias Walker 




55. Phinehas Case 




56. Leman Case . . . . ^ 


1 


57. *Samuel Ball 


58. Levi E. Barker 




59. Isaiah G. Barker 


1 




— ■ J 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



147 



CENSUS GF BERKSHIRE, DECEMBER, r82o.— Continued. 



Nameb. 



«0. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
61. 
65. 
46. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
■70. 
71. 
72. 
•73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
•77. 
78. 
79. 
*0. 
81. 
82. 
S3. 
84. 
:85. 
86. 

87: 

88. 
^9. 
90. 
91. 
92. 



Edmund Barker 

Eraetus Benton 

*Conaider Lawrence 

Lyman Durfee 

John Durl'ee 

♦Samuel Torry 

Ezra Landon. 

Abraham HotohMn 

* Jeremiah Campbell . . . 

*A8ahel Eoyoe 

*Deodatus Koyce . : 

*John Gregory 

Thomas Langdon 

*Samuel Collins 

*Ebenezer E. Gleazen. . 

Joseph Cook 

*Henry Ball 

♦Stephen Ball ; 

♦William Ball 

♦Elizabeth Cook. ..;... 

♦Ransom Williams 

♦David Williams. ., 

♦lohabod Brainerd, Jr. 

♦lohabod Brainerd 

♦Samuel Hutchinson. . . 

Marcus Ford 

Luke B. Winship 

John EounseviUe 

♦Mehitable Brown 

♦Joseph Waldo 

♦Nathaniel Ford 

*Barnabas Manning . . . 

Ealph Manning 

♦Isaac Ball...- 



Totals . 



Nc. Males 


AND 


Ages 




No. Females, AND Ages. 


1 


1 


i 


i 


i 


i 


1 


1 


i 


i 


i 


1 





|>) 


w 


k» 


>^ 


S* 





t^ 


[>-. 


>, 


Ph 


^ 


1-1 


CO 


CO 


CD 


}a 


1— t 


CO 


CO 


10 


p 


^ 


u 


r-l 


TH 


(M 


^ 


■a 


u 


r-t 


(M 


'«*< 


13 


1 


S 


S. 


s 





§ 


p 


S 


.s 


^ 


g 








CD 


v> 


CO 


in 





CO 


to 


"3 


a 


l-H 


■i-i 


r-l 


CM 


tH 


tH 


1— ( 


« 


TH 


<f 










1 




1 




1 






1 


1 








1 




2 


2 




1 








1 


2 


4 


1 








1 




1 


5 


2 






1 


1 










1 








1 




1 

1 


1 

1 


1 


2 


1 


1 


1 


1 


2 




1 








1 




1 




1 






2 


1 








1 




1 


3 




1 






1 








1 


1 


2 


2 


1« 


1 




1 








1 




1 




2 














1 




1 




1 


1 


2 


1 




1 








1 




1 




1 








2 


1 




2 
1 


2 


1 


' 




2 
1 


1 


1 




2 








1 




3 






1 






4 


1 






1 




1 


2 


1 


1 






1 






1 










1 








1 


1 




1 






1 




1 




1 




1 








1 




1 




1 


2 






1 






2 




1 






1 








2 


2 






1 


1 






1 


2 






1 


2 




2 
2 




1 


1 


' 


2 
1 




1 




1 




2 


3 


2 




3 






2 


1 




1 


1 


1 


1 




1 










1 






1 


1 


3 








2 


1 


1 


1 






1 




1 


1 


1 




1 


1 




2 






2 




1 
2 




1 
1 


1 
1 
1 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 
1 


2 




2 








1 




3 


1 




1 

57 


31 




94 


41 


15 


65 


58 


30 


102 


43 


65 


113 



I 



1 

29 



1. Roswell H. Brown lived on lot 417, in the first house south 
•of the present town of Richford ; but little has been reniembered, 
•of him beyond the fact that when slightly elevated in tone, he 
wished to be addressed as "Mr. Roswell H. Brown, Esq., Sir." 
•One of his children was born 29 Dec, 1821. Afterward he lived 
•on lot 303, on the west bank of Strong brook, south of the road, 
near the corner where a road branches off to the north. Among 

■ .his children were William and Hannah. 

2. Capt. Jed Chapman, a carpenter and joiner, lived below Mr. 
Brown, on the east side of the same road, in the second house 
above Mr. Leonard's tannery. He was born at Saybrook, Conn., 

14 Dec, 17.81, ra 28 Sept., 1803, with Content Canfield, and set- 
tled at Durham, N Y. In the spring of 181 1 they moved to 



148 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Berkshire, and thence, in Dec, 1831, to Newark Valley, where 
they died ; he, 28 Dec, 1852 ; she, 14 Feb., 1861. His mother, 
Amanda Denison, married with Eleazer Hodges, by whom she 
had several children. Capt. Chapman's children were as follows : 

I. Edward Newton, b 25 July, 1804. 

II. Elizur Brown, b 6 Oct., 1806, m with Julia Blackman, and 
resides at Jackson, Mich. 

III. Mary Amanda, b 10 Dec, 1808, m i April, 1834, with Isaac 
Van Alstein. 

■IV. William Henry, b 25 Dec, 1810, m 14 Jan., 1835, with 
Electa Ayres. 

V. George Miller, b 24 March, 1813, m 16 Sept., 1835, with 
Esther Miranda Williams, and now lives at Newark Valley. 

VI. Richard Mulford, b 7 Aug., 1815, died at Napierville, 111., 
4 May, 1842. 

VII. Aaron Canfield, b 29 April. 1818, resides in Newark 
Valley. 

VIII. Noyes Palmer, b 25 Aug., 1820, now lives in Newark 
Valley. 

IX. Lyman Furry, b 14 Aug., 1822, resides in Newark Valley. 

X. Charles Denison, b 15 Oct., 1824, lives in Michigan. 
XL Lucy Elvira, b 12 Feb., 1827, died 16 Sept., 1829. 

4. Jonathan Belcher, is undoubtedly a clerical error for Elijah 
Belcher, already mentioned. 

5. John William Bessac lived on lot 297, west of the road which 
goes over the hill, and west of the creek. He was born in Hud- 
son, N. Y., 26 April, 1790, a son of Jean Guilliaume and Anah 
(Nichr)ls) Bessac. He married in January, 181 3, with Lucy Bel- 
cher, daughter of Joseph and Lucy (Hall) Belcher. He died 9 
Dec, 1868. She died 23 May, 1868. " Mr. Bessac Was no ordin- 
ary man. With a mind of singular brilliancy and power, he 
combined a temper of unusual sweetness, the keenest wit, and 
a playful humor that rendered him a most genial and instructive 
companion." His father was born 4 Feb., 1760, in Mon Valant, 
France. The children of John William and Lucy (Belcher) Bes- 
sac were as follows : 

I. Joann Frances, b 7 Feb., 1814. 

II. Calista Maria, b 18 March, 1816. 

III. Henry William, b 6 April, 1818, m with Emily Hull. 

IV. Esther B., b 6 March, 1820. 

V. John Bertrand, b 28 July, 1822, d 30 Sept., 1824. 

VI. Fayette B., b 12 July, 1824. 



TOWN OF, BERKSHIRE. 149 



VII. Catharine E., b 7 Dec, 1827. 

VIII. Susan, b 13 Nov., 1829. 

IX. Frederick Oriel, b 12 March, 1831. 

X. Mary Elizabeth, b in Aug-., 1834. 

6. Elisha Jenks lived on lot 300, east of the creek road, and 
north of the hill road. It is said that he was a cousin of Michael 
Jenks, the first settler there. Laban Jenks was his brother. Elisha 
Jenks was born about 27 June, 1774, and died 13 Nov., 1840. His 
wife, Anna, was born about 27 Sept., 1771, and died 15 June, 1854. 

7. Calvin Jenks lived on the east end of lot 300. He was a son 
of Elisha Jenks. He married with Anna Brown, daughter of 
Capt. Brown, and died on the same place, about 1886, 

8. Luther Hamilton lived in the first house southwest of Daniel 
Carpenter, on lot 302. He m at Stockbridge, Mass., 2 5Jov., 1815, 
with Sylvia Carpenter, who was born there 14 March, 1782. She 
died 10 June, 1832. 

9. Joel Smith and Jesse Smith had no settled residence in 1820. 
They were carpenters and not married. Joel Smith was killed in 
Owego, as early as 1866, by the fall of a building which he was 
moving. Jesse Smith, b at Lee, Mass., 5 May, 1792, served as a 
soldier in the war of 1812. He married with Betsey Legg, a nd 
settled on the north half of lot 419, where Newell Robinson now 
lives. They had four children, viz. : 

I. Deborah Williams, b about 1826. II. Daniel B., b about 1828. 
III. Miranda M., b about 1830. IV. James R., b about 1832. 
Their house was burned on 21 Dec, 1840, after the family had 

gone to bed, and all were consumed in the fire except the eldest 
daughter, who was away from home attending school. She mar- 
ried with . Russel W. Freeland, and now resides at Oiiaquaga, 
N. Y. It was long supposed that the fire was accidental; bu*- 
years after it a story was in the papers that a murderer, under 
sehtance of death, confessed that he saw Mr. Smith receive some 
money at Richford, followed him home, asked to be kept over 
night, and when the family were sleeping rose to get the money, 
and Smith and his wife being roused by the noise, he killed them 
in their bed with an axe, set the house on fire, and escaped with 
seventeen dollars, his whole booty. 

10. Ephraim Reniff's residence has not been ascertained. 

II. Samuel Osborn lived on the west side of the road, next 
above Elisha Jenks, and about a quarter of a mile from him. He 
had eight or nine children, one of whom, Betsey, m with Lyman • 
Legg. Samuel Osb6rn was born about 3 Sept., 1762, and died 



150 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



19 April, 1840. Mary, his wife, was born about ,11 Nov., 1770, 
and died 18 March, 1832. 

12. Schuyler Legg lived on the hill, on the southeast quarter 
of lot 301, where his son, Layton J. Legg, has since lived. His 
farm joined on the west, end of Luther Hamilton's farm. He was 
a son of Reuben Legg, and grandson of David. He had children 
b 19 July, 181 1; 24 Oct., i8i2;and 28 Aug., 1820. His wife, Hannah, 
died II Oct., i860, aged 74 years. 

13. Amos Peck, a shoemaker, lived on the road above Samuel 
Osborn. At a later time he lived on the hill, half a mile west of 
Schuyler Legg. His child, probably the second, was born 2q 
Feb., 1822. 

14. Daniel Jenks lived above Amos Peck. He had previously 
lived on the east end of lot, 300, which he sold to Calvin Jenks. 

He was the eldest son of Elisha Jenks. He married with , a 

daughter of Thomas Keeny. 

15. Reuben Legg's residence has not been ascertained. 

16. Larned Legg, youngest son of Reuben Legg, m with 

Whiteley. 

18. Isaac Bunnel lived north of Carpenter, where Charles Scott 
now lives, on the southeast quarter of lot 339. He was son of 
Dea. John and Hannah Bunnel. His wife, Rachel, died 5 Sept., 
1842, aged 43 years, i month and 11 days. Their daughter, Eliza, 
died 14 Aug., 1841, aged 5 years, 7 months and 14 days. 

19. Samuel Haight lived in the hollow, away from the road, 
west of Isaac Bunnel, 

20. Eleazer Lyman, Jr., lived on Berkshire East Hill, near 
Samuel Haight, and was then a farmer and teacher. He was 
born at Peru, Mass., 18 August, 1802, (see Note 51), married 
there 18 Sept., 1819, and in the following month came to Berk- 
shire ; and after five or six years moved to Belfast, Allegany Co., 
N. Y., and thence, in October, 1829, to Friendship, N. Y., where 
he began the study of medicine, and received his diploma in 
1832, while living at Bolivar, N. Y., to which place he moved in 
March, 1832. He returned to Berkshire in April, 1834, and 
moved again in April, 1835, to Great Bend, Pa., where his wife 
died 13 Oct., 1838. He married (2d) about 1842, with Sally 
Clark, of Great Bend, and was killed there by a vicious horse, * 
6 January, 1845. His children were: 

I. Chauncey Almeron, b at Berkshire, 19 July, 1820, a lawyer, 
served in the war of 1861, reaching the rank of Lieut.-Colonel, 
and resides at Lock Haven, Pa. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 15 1 



II. Charles Eleazer, b at Richford, 27 Nov., 1824, a lawyer ; 
served in the war of 1861, reaching the rank of Captain; and 
resides at Great Bend, Pa. 

III. Betsey Jane, b at Belfast, N. Y., 21 Dec, 1828, died in 
infancy. 

IV. James Wellman, bat Friendship, N. Y., 6 March, 1830'; 
served as a surgeon in the war of I861, and finally as Lieut.-Col. 
of 203d Pa. Volunteers, and was killed at Fort Fisher, 15 Janu- 
ary, 1865. 

V. Betsey Keziah, b at Bolivar, N. Y., 24 May, 1832 ; m with 
J. F. Nice, and lives at Williamsport, Pa. 

VI. Alice Elvira, b at Berkshire, 9 June, 1834; m with Elijah 
Cobb, and lives at Little Sioux, Iowa. 

VII. Vincent Page, b at Great Bend, Pa., 15 June, 1836,; re- 
sides at Portland, Oregon. 

VI [I. Clara Janet, b at Great Bend, Pa., 10 Feb., 1844 ; m with 
J. C. Scott, and lives at Waverly, N. Y. 

21. Thomas Keeny lived near the center of lot 339, where 
Alfred Hyde Ford lived at a later time. 

,23. Thomas Bunting lived in a log house east of the road, 
above Joseph Gleazen, near the corner of the roads. He had 
moved to that place in April, 1820, when he sold his former home 
to Mr. Gleazen. Tradition says that he soon went back to New 
Jersey, from whence he came. 

24. Joseph Belcher lived on the northwest quarter of lot 343, 
at the angle of the roads. He was a son of Joseph and Lucy 
(Hall) Belcher, and m about 1815 with Wealthy Whiting, widow 

of Judd, and daughter of William Whiting. They removed 

to Richford, where she died 6 Oct., 1859, aged 70 years. He 
married (2d) with Laura A. Appleton. He died at Richford, 16 
March, 1868, aged 74 years. His children were : 

I. Lucy, m with Whiting Valentine, and m (2d) with Rev. 
Timothy Dwight Walker. She died broken hearted, 13 March, 
1868, three days before her father's death. 

II. Horatio, m with Amanda Hungerford, of Caroline, and 
was killed' while sitting on his horse before Petersburgh, Va., 
seven balls having entered his body. 

III. Galitzin, died in California. 

IV. Flavel, served in the rebel army in the war of 1861. 

V. Marietta, m with John Deming. 

VI. Joseph, b 7 Jan., 1828, died young. 

VII. Useria, b 5 April, 1829; died 27 Jan., 1830. 
11* 



152 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



25. William Whiting, lived on the east side of the road on the- 
crown of the hill, on the south half of lot 343, south of Joseph 
Belcher, and east of Joseph Gleazen. 

26. Eleazer Valentine lived near the south line of the southeast 
quarter of lot 379, on the south side of the road, where George 
Rich Ford afterward lived. He had a child born 5 Nov.j 1820, 

27. William Sterry Smith, a shoemaker, lived a little north- 
west from Eleazer Valentine, near the middle of the south half of 
lot 379, afterward the Charles Nixon place. 

29. Stephen Butler lived next north or northwest of Isaac 
Goodale, on the old road, long since discontinued, which led 
from Isaac Goodale's to the Berkshire and Rawson Hollow road. 
He married 18 Aug,, 1815, with Olive Baker, who d 18 Jan., 
1851. She was born at Cheshire, Mass., 10 Nov., 1788, eldest 
child of Waterman and Mercy (Bowen) Baker. He married (2d) 
with Abigail Goodale, widow of Asa Curtis, of Maine, N. Y. 
She was born at Pittsfield, Mass., 4 Aug., 1790, tenth child of 
Isaac and Jemima (Warner) Goodale. He died at Newark Valley, 
He had a child born 8 March, 1822 

30. Alden Baker lived on the same old road, north of Stephent 
Butler, and probably on the southwest quarter of lot 383. He 
was born in Cheshire, Mass., 10 Sept., 1790, second child of Water- 
man and Mercy (Bowen) Baker, and m 19 Dec, 1816, with Polly- 
Smith, daughter of Heman and Miriam (Moody) Smith. 

33. John S. Thorpe, probably, lived above Solomon Leonard, 
on the same side of the way, just south of the little stream. 

34._Isaac Hitchcock, bat Bethlehem, Conn., 8 Feb., 1786, son. 
of Jared and Irena (Bartholomew) Hitchcock, m with Nancy 
Leonard, daughter of Asa and Olive (Churchill) Leonard. They 
joined the church .at Newark Valley, 2 Jan., 1820, and were dis- 
missed to the church at Berkshire, 5 July, 1833. He died 20 Feb., 
1867. She died 6 Dec, 1872. Their home was on the west side 
of the road, on the northwest quarter of 101377; afterward on. 
the north side of Leonard street, where hisdaughters now live. 
Their children were : 

I. Chauncey B., b i July, 18 12, m at Franklin, N. Y., 22 Nov., 
1838, with Sarah Maria Lovelace, and lives at Geneva Lake, Wis. 

II. Horatio, b 8 Sept., 1814, m at McLean, N. Y., 16 Feb.^ 
1841, with Louisa Susan Brown. He was a physician, and died 
at Chicago, 111. 

III. Juliette, b 18 Dec, 1816, m i Jan., 1845, at Berkshire, with 
Dwight Waldo. She resides on her father's homestead, a widow. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 53 



. IV. Charlotte, b 23 Dec, 1818, m 7 Sept., 1843, at Berkshire, 
with Charles Lull. 

V. Susan, b i March, 1824, d 3 Sept., 1825. 

VI. Caroline, b 19 March, 1826, and resides on her father's 
homestead. 

VII. Dwight, b 25 Nov., 1828, died 10 Oct., 1847. 

36. Sellick Payne, a carpenter and joiner, came from Rich- 
mond, Mass., without his family, in 1816, to build the new meet- 
ing house, which was dedicated 4 July, 1817. In 1820 he moved 
his family from Richmond to Geneseo, N. Y., and thence, in the 
same year, to Berkshire. He dwelt, the first winter, in the old 
log house of David Williams, on the west side of the way, just 
north of the school-house. During several years he moved from 
place to place, as he had contracts for building ; at one time in 
Richford, at another in Newark Valley, and finally built the 
house where his son, Henry Payne, now lives, opposite the Con- 
gregational meeting-house, in Berkshire 

37. William H. Moore, a trader, lived on the east side of the 
road, where Dr. Gay now lives, and had a store (since burned), 
on the corner, just north of his house. Within a few years, after 
1820, he bought the next place south of his house, and built a 
new store opposite the school-house, and then built the front part 
of the house where Mrs. Betsey Bidwell now lives, a little south 
of the store. 

38. Andrew Rees, a farmer, is remembered as always driving 
a fine team of horses, but his place of residence has not been 
ascertained. It is probable that he was at Mr. Moore's store 
when he gave the particulars of his family. 

39. Anna Collins was widow of Dan Collins, a cooper, who 
died 27 June, 1820, in the kitchen part of the house now occupied 
by Mrs. Betsey Bidwell. Her maiden name was Anna Lisk, and 
she was born 6 July, 1780. She had three children. Bristol Lisk 
Collins b 26 May 1809; died at Berkshire, 17 July, 1814; Orra 
Ann Collins, b 3 Dec. 181 1 ; and George Bristol Lisk Collins, b 
19 Dec. 1815. She moved to one of the Western states with her 
children, a few years later. 

40. John Ayres, in Dec, 1820, was living in the bouse of Isaac 
Hitchcock. 

41. Lyman Hull, lived where Nathan Rightmire now lives, 
east of the road, on the northeast quarter of lot 383. He died 
23 March, 1823, aged 34 years and 4 months. 



1 54 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



42. Jesse Gleazen lived on the west side of the way, near the 
north line of lot 383, in Dec, 1820. 

45. Moses Stanley lived " in a blackberry patch," on the old 
road which has long been out of use, and probably on the north- 
west quarter of lot 383. He was a joiner, and married with 
Susanna Goodale. They moved to Veteran, N. Y., where she 
died I March, 1826. He is known to have been in Berkshire as 
early as October, 1807. His wife joined the church 7 Feb., 1813, 
and was dismissed 22 June, 1823. Their children were : 

I. Lucy, b (probably) 26 Aug., 1808, bap. 17 March, 1813. 

II. Lovina, b (probably) 29 Oct., 1810, bap. 17 March, 1813. 

III. , a daughter, bap 12 Oct., 1813. 

IV. Mary, bap 8 Jan., 1815. V. Chauncey, bap 2 Aug., 1818. 

46. Clarissa Smith lived down in the valley, on a little stream, 
on lot 418. She was a daughter of Isaac Goodale, and was born 
at Westhampton, Mass., 19 April, 1792. She was the widow of 
Heman Smith, Jr. , who had his leg crushed while clearing his land, 
about 21 June, 1820, and died from the injury, about 7 July, 1820. 
Her youngest child, by Mr. Smith, was born after his death, 20 
Nov., 1820. Her second husband was Nathaniel Johnson, of 
Richford. 

47. Samuel Smith lived on the road to Rawson Hollow, and 
probably on the northwest quarter of lot 419. 

48. Hooker Bishop lived on the south side of the hill road, on 
the western slope of the hill, near the centre of Ipt 420, about 
thirty rods east of the Keith Blackman house, and about three- 
eighths of a mile- east of the creek road at Rawson Hollow. He 
was born at Richmond, Mass., 30 March, 1781, son of the Hon. 
Nathaniel and Ruth (Bartlett) Bishop, and married in Berkshire, 
20 August, 1812, with Sabra Clark. Soon after the census was 
taken they moved to a small house on the farm of Samuel Collins, 
west of the Richford road, and very near where the railway 
crosses the road ; and in this hoy^se she died 9 March, 1821. He 
died 28 June, 1821, at the house of Samuel Collins, to which he 
was taken so that his sister, Mrs. Collins, could more easily care 
for him. Their children were : 

I. Mary, b 28 May, 1813. 

II. John Bartlett, b 23 May, 1815 ; m 24 June 1846, with Sara;h 
Jane Merchant, and ha.d one daughter, who m with William 
Elwell. 

III. Betsey, b 17 April, ^8i7;m with David M. Sturtevant, 
and lives in Newark Valley. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 55 

IV. Nathaniel, b 21 Oct., 1819; died 26 April 1822. 

49. Cicero Barker, a wool-carder and cloth-dresser, lived on 
the corner, east of the creek road, and south of the hill road, at 
Rawson Hollow on the west end of lot 420. His twin brother, 
Cephas Barker, lived with him, and had a share of the business. 
Their shop was on the east bank of the creek, where the firkin 
factory now stands, and they took the water from the pond of 
Lyman Rawson's grist-mill, which stood at the west end of the 
dam in the town of Caroline. 

50. Aaron Livermore lived on lot 420, a few rods south of 
Cicero Barker, and about ten rods east of the creek road, at 
Rawson Hallow. A few years later he moved farther south and 
lived west of the road, on lot 380. He was born at Spencer, 
Mass., March, 1782, and married with Content Akins. After his 
death she moved to Michigan with her children, about 1856, 
and settled at Dexter or Ingham. He and six of his twelve chil- 
dren are buried at Speedsville, N. Y., and the other six settled in 
Michigan. 

51. Eleazer Jl<yman lived in a log house on the bank of thp 
creek, on the northwest corner of lot 381, about twenty rods west 
of the present road. A year or two later he built a new house 
near the north line of the lot, on the east side of the road. His 
farm is now occupied by S. D. Freeland, who lives on the west 
side of the road. He was born 28 May, 1780, a son of Major 
Ozias and Sally (Parker) Lyman ; married at Peru, Mass., in Feb., 
1802, with Betsey Raymond, who was born i Oct., 1783, daugh- 
ter of Amos and Alice (Joslin) Raymond, of Peru. They dwelt 
in Peru till Ofitober, 18 19, then settled as above stated in Berk- 
shire, where she died of. cancer, i Sept., 1851. He died there of 
consumption 5 "Feb., 185.3. Their children were: 

I. Eleazer, b at Peru, Mass., 18 Aug., 1802; m at Hinsdale, 
Mass., 18 Sept., iSig, with Sally Payne, daughter of Ebenezer 
Payne. "^He died at Great Bend, Pa., 6 Jan., 1845. 

II. Betsey, bat Peru, Mass., 4 Aug., 1804; married lO Sept., 
1821, with Lyman P. Akins. r 

III. Alice Raymond, b at Peru, Mass., 27 Jiiily, 1806, died there 
27 July, 1806. 

IV. Raymond, b at Peru, Mass., 13 April, i'8b8, and died there 
29 Dec, 1 8 14. 

V. Alice, b at Peru, Mass., 3 April, 1810, died 16 Feb., 1814. 

VI. David, b at Peru, Mass., 25 Nov., 1812 ; died 20 Feb., 1814 



IS6 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



VII. Obias, b at Peru, Mass., 15 Sept., 1814; died 15 Sept., 
1 8 14. 

VIII. Alice, b at Peru, Mass., 23 Feb., 1816, married with 
John Harper Heggie, and lives at Colesburgh, Potter Co., Pa. 

IX. Daniel Raymond, b at Peru, Mass., 27 Feb., 18 18, m with 
Sarah Jane Blair, daughter of George and Rhoda (Blackman) 
Blair. He died 19 Sept., 1880, at Jackson, Mich., where she still 
resides. 

X. Persis, b in Berkshire 18 Feb., 1820 ; married there, 18 Feb., 

1841, with Austin Blair, son of George and Rhoda (Blackman) 
Blair. Thej' settled at Eaton Rapids, Mich., where she died 30 
Jan., 1844. He was elected Governor of Michigan in Novem- 
ber, i860, served during several terms, and was known as the 
"War Governor of Michigan." 

XI. Nancy, b at Berkshire 16 Feb., 1822 ; married there Nov., 

1842, with Daniel Brown Jenks, and resides at Speedsville, N. Y. 

XII. Mary, b at Berkshire 27 Feb., 1824; married there with 
Levi J. Osborn, and Hves at -Big Rapids, Mich. 

XIII. David Ballou, b at Berkshire, 21 Dec, .1826; married 
with Caroline Douglas, and died in Silver Township, Cherokee 
Co., Iowa, 24 Nov., 1886. 

XIV. Sarah, b at Berkshire 2 April, 1829: married Feb., 1844, 
with George Landers Haypes, and resides in Owego, N. Y. 

54. Elias Walker lived on the southwest quarter of lot 341, 
east of the road, just north of the orchard now owned by the 
Whiting family, and directly east of the village of Speedsville. 
The house no longer stands there. He removed to Mora- 
via, N. Y. 

55. Phineas Case, a blacksmith, came with his wife from Litch- 
field County, Conn., settled on lot 380, and built the house west 
of the road and directly opposite the cheese factory, now owned 
by E. D. Legg. His shop was on the same side of the way, and 
about fifteen rods south of his house. He moved to the west 
part of Candor, on the Spencer road, and died there. 

56. Leman Case was a carpenter, came from Litchfield county. 
Conn., and married with Polly Jenks, daughter of Laban Jenks, 
an early settler at Speedsville. He settled in a house that was 
built by Job Hall, on lot 380, west of the road, some thirty or 
forty rods south of his brother, Phineas Case. He moved to 
Michigan not far from 1824. 

58. Levi E. Barker lived on the hill, on the northeast quarter 
of lot 341. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 57 

59- Isaiah Gridley Barker, a silversmith and repairer of watches, 
lived about twenty rods south of the road and northeast of Levi 
E. Barker, on the same lot, 341. He m in 181 1, with Permelia 
Cobb, who was b in Canaan, Conn., 20 Jan., 1791, daughter of 
EUjah William and Sally (Whitney) Cobb. She died 11 Feb., 
1830, at Henrietta, N. Y., aged 39 yeajs. Their children were: 

I. Rhoda, d in Feb., 1830. 

n. Mary Ann, b i Jan., 1814, m with Mr. Birdsall, and d be- 
fore 1851. 

HI. Eliza, died in 1826. IV. Beda. 

V. Permelia, was born 6 Oct., 1820, m in 1835, with Sidney 
Waite, who died at Appleton, Wis., in 1869, and she was living 
there in 1875. » 

VI. and VII. Twin sisters, died. VIII. Lyman Cobb. 

IX. William Whitney, m with Eliza D. Lincoln, of Pike, N. Y., 
in 1851. 

60. Edmund Barker lived on the same lot, 341, very near its 
north line, and just west of the angle where the road turns east 
on the lot lines. 

61. Erastus Benton, a school teacher, lived, south of the road, 
on the north border of lot 342. He came from Lenox, Mass. 
His wife was Elizabeth Paul, and their children were : 

I. Harriet, b at Lenox, Mass., m with Henry Johnson. 

II. Rhoda Maria, b at Lenox, Mass., 7 Feb., 1810, m with Will- 
iams Hutchinson. 

III. Mary Ann, b at Lenox, Mass., m with G. D. Gleazen. 

IV. Lucretia, b at Berkshire, died whqii a year old. 

V. Charlotte, m with John Haddock, and lives in Candor, near 
Speedsville. 

VI. Charles, b about 14 Jan., 1820, lives on the homestead. 

VII. Lyman Cobb, b 21 Aug., 1821, lives at Jenksville. 

VIII. A son, died young. IX. A son, died young. 

X. Martin, died when 17 years old. 

63. Lyman Durfee, a carpenter and joiner, lived on the south- 
east quarter of lot 338, where S. B. Aikens has since lived. He 
•was born at Richmond, Mass., 14 March, 1792, m 19 Oct., 1815, 
with Hannah Hatch, of Richmond. He died in Wisconsin, 2 
March, 18—. She died 12 Nov., 1844, aged 51 years, 9 months 
and 2 days, and was buried in West Newark. 

64. John Durfee lived on the same place with his son, Lyman 
Durfee. 

66. Ezra Landon lived in the north part of Berkshire, on top 



158 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

of the hill, a mile east of where Col. Royce lives. He married 
with Ruby Chapin, a niece of Samuel Lucas, who had formerly 
lived on the same place, and died without children. Mrs. Landon 
inherited his property. Landon and his wife were Methodists, 
but finally went off and joined the Mormons. He had a child b 
10 May, 1821. 

67. Abraham Hotchkin lived in a log house on the west side of 
the road, opposite the site of the brick house since built by CoL 
John B. Royce. He had already sold the house and land to CoL 
Royce, but continued for several years to dwell there. He was 
born in Guilford, Conn., 16 July, 1779, married in 1805, with Par- 
thenia Bement, eldest daughter of Asa Bement. They afterward 
settled on lot 218, in Newark Valley, and died there; he, 28 Feb., 
1842; she 2 June, 1847. They had two children: 

I. Marshal, b in Newark Valley, 18 May, 1806, died 24 Ma3', 
1874. He had three wives — Juliaette Williams, Abigail (Harmon) 
Branch, and Mary Edwards Muzzy, who still lives in Newark 
Valley. His daughter, by his first wife, is yet living on the home- 
stead of her father and grandfather. 

IL Abby Lavinia, b at Newark Valley, 26 Aug., 1808. 

72. Thomas Langdon, in December 1820, lived in asmallhous& 
just north of the house of Samuel Collins. He married in April 
1816, with Maria Lawrence, daughter of Consider Lawrence. 
Their children were. 

I. Wealthy, b 27 July 18 17, m in Dec. 1838, with Stanley 
Sheffield Hinman, and settled at Monroeton, Penn. 

IL Benjamin, b 6 June, 1819, m in Sept. 1846, with Eveline 
Perry, of Owego, and settled in Monroeton, Penn. 

III. , b 25 Feb. 1821. 

IV, Eliza, b i Sept. 1822, m in Sept. 1846, with William Wiltse, 
and settled at Speedsville, N. Y. 

75. Joseph Cook, a distiller, lived in the village of Berkshire. 
His wife was Livermore, and they moved to Lisle, N. Y, 

85. Marcus Ford, a blacksmith, b at Lenox, Mass., 13 Feb. 
1796, lived just north of the corner opposite the Congregational 
church. He never married. His sister, Margaret Ford, who 
was born at Lenox, 29 April, i79§, kept his house during 
his life. He died 17 June, 1838. In 1820 when the census was 
taken, their brother, Charles Backus Ford, b at Lenox, 28 Aug., 
1791, a shoemaker, lived in the house with them. They came to 
Berkshire about 1814. Margaret Ford m 7 July, 1846, witb 
David Smith, of China, N. Y. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 1 59 



' 86. Luke Bates Winship lived on the west side of tiie road, on 
the homestead of Josiah Ball, on lot 33. He was born at Union, 
N. Y., 31 March, 1794, a clothier, tanner, inn-keeper and farmer. 
He m 22 Feb., 1.^16, with Cynthia Ball. They had ten children, 
and died there. 

87. John Rounseville lived on the east side of the road, below 
the Isaac Brown place, in a small framed house which was built 
by Elijah H. Saltmarsh, for a store. 

92. Ralph Manning, a nephew of Barnabas Manning, lived \n 
1820, where Charles S. Manning now lives. He married with 
Betsey Cobb, who was born about 16 June, 1794, and died 6 
June, 1848, aged 53 years, 11 months and 20 days. He married 
(2d) with Maria Archibald, sister of Samuel Archibald,.of Owego, 
and she is still living, at Alden, McHenry Co., 111. He had two 
children, Sophia Manning, b 2 Oct., 1819; and Gurdon G. Man- 
ning, b 30 Dec, 1825, now resides at Waverly. 

This completes the matter furnished by Mr. Patterson, and we 
add the following : 

The comparative growth of the town may be seen by reference 
to the following figures, showing the population for the several 
years cited: i8io, 1,105; 1820,1,502;* 1825, 1,404; 1830, 1,711; 
1835,964; 1845,878; 1850,1,049; 1855,1,068; i860, 1,151; 1865, 
1,073; 1870, 1,240; 1875, 1.304; 1880, 1,304. 

Additional Sketches. — Ezekial Dewey was born in Westfield,. 
Mass., in 1797, and came here about 1816, locating first in that 
part of Berkshire which is now Richford. He married for his 
first wife, Lucy, daughter of Nathaniel Johnson, of Richford, who 
bore him five children, Lucy, Samantha, Jane E., David W., 
Charles J., and Ezekiel H. Of these only two are living, Charles 
J., of Berkshire, and Ezekiel H., of Rochester, Mich. He married 
Eunice, daughter of Heman Smith, for his second wife, and had 
born, to him one child, Amanda, wife of John Rightmire, of 
Caroline, N. Y. Mr. Dewey died February 11, 1887, aged eighty- 
nine years. 

"Ichabod Ford was born in Norwich, Conn., and came to this 
town with his family in 1822. He married twice, first, Rebecca 
Thomas, of Barnstable, Mass., and reared eight children, viz; 
Charles B., Susan T., Marcus, Margaret, Elijah T., Caroline, 

* The apparent discrepancy between this number and that given by the census table on 
page 146, is due to the fact that the table only includes those that lived within the present 
limits of Berkshire. * 



l6o TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Lebbeus and Alfred. His wife died in 1813, and he married for 
his second wife Theda Abby, and reared four children, Calvin, 
Susan, Ichabod and Philena. Alfred H., who was born in Lenox, 
Mass., December 30, 1808, came here in 1822, married first, Bet- 
sey Rich, who bore him one child, George R.. and second, 
Eunice, daughter of John Rewey, of Newark Valley. Two chil- 
dren were born to thep:i, John R., of this town, and Phoebe, who 
married Theodore Dykeman. Lebbeus Ford also came here 
from Lenox, in 1822, engaged as a blacksmith, and was for a long 
time the only blacksmith in town. He married Sarah W. Wit- 
ler, and had born to him four children, namely, Marcus, Harriet 
H., William W., and one who died in infancy. William W. mar- 
ried Florence J., daughter of Sylvester Simmons, and has had 
born to hitn four children, as follows : Sarah W., Annie L., Har- 
riet H. and Mary J. 

"Daniel P. Wil^Jjer, son of Josiah, was born in Windham, Conn., 
moved to Homer, N. Y., in 1812, and came to Berkshire in 1833. 
He married Elizabeth, daughter of Samuel Humphrey, and 
reared nine children. Viz: Asa, Betsey, Mary, John, Lester, Lu- 
cretia, Jasper, Daniel and Sarah. Of these only two are living, 
Jasper, of Dundaff, Penn., and Sarah, widow of Lebbeus Ford. 
Asa married Louisa, daughter of Ralph Collins, for his first wife, 
who bore him nine children, and for his second wife he married 
Delia, daughter of Samuel Torrey, and had born to him five 
children. 

John F. Kimball was born in Scotland, Conn., in i8i i, and came 
to Berkshire in 1835, locating on the farm where he now resides. 
He married Ruth, daughter of Maj. Peleg Ellis, of Dryden, and 
has three children, namely, James P., surgeon and majorat West 
Point, Olive, and Grace (Mrs. Lorenzo J. Slannard). 
. John Bunnell came to this county, from Pike county, Pa. Henry 
J., one of his fourteen children, was born in December, 1803, 
married Eliza A. Livermore in 1828, and in 1830 he purchased 
and made the first settlement on the farm where he now resides. 
He has had born to him six children, viz.: John G., Charles A., 
■deceased, William H., Mary E., Sarah, and James H., who died 
in infancy. 

Erastus E. Humphrey, son of Roswell. was born in Canton, 
Conn., and moved to Speedsville, which was then a part of Tioga 
county, in 18 12. 

Frederick Shaff was born in Duchess county, in 1752, and 
came to this town to live with his son, who had been here since 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. l6l 

1841. Mr. Shaft was 105 years of age when James Buchanan was 
elected president, and that was his last vote. He died in 1859, 
aged 107 years. 

Joseph Walter, son of Elijah, moved to Newark Valley, from 
New Marlboro, Mass., in 1830. He married twice, first, Abigail 
Manley, and second, Hannah Schoonover. His son George was 
born in New Marlboro, and came to this county when only eight 
years of age. He married Martha, daughter of Joel Allen, of 
Caroline, N. Y., and in 1851 purchased and made the first clear- 
ing on the farm where he now resides. 

Charles L. Mayor came here, from Switzerland, in 1849, ^^^ 
purchased the farm where his son Theodore now resides. He 
■was a graduate of a medical college in Paris, practiced medicine 
a while in Switzerland, and also for eight years in Berkshire., In 
1857 he returned to his native land for a visit, but was detained 
there by sickness, and died in 1863. He left four children, 
namely: Theodore, Dr. Edward A., of Owego, and Julia and 
Paul, who live in Switzerland. Theodore married Emma, daugh- 
ter of Daniel Root, of Richford, and has two children, Jennie, 
wife of G. O. Steele, of Owego, and Charles D. The latter mar- 
ried Harriet, daughter of William Patch, and resides on the farm 
with his father. 

Peter Youngs, son of Abram, was born in Marathon, August 
28, 1827, and lived there until he was twenty eight years of age. 
He purchased and made the first settlement on the farm where 
he now lives, in March, 1857. He married for his first wife, Mary 
J., daughter of Reuben Smith, who bore him five children, viz.: 
Morris, Orson R., Annie, deceased, Frank W., and Jessie G. His 
wife died July 10, 1877, and he married for his second wife, Mary 
A. Higgins, of Caroline Center, N. Y., December 26, 1877. 

William Shaw, son of Henry, was born in Charlton, N. Y., and 
came to this town in 1820, locating on the place where his son 
William T. now lives. He married Betsey Talmage, and reared 
five children, viz.: Lucy M., Elizabeth, William T., Henry B. 
and Hannah M. 

George W. Northrop, son of Ebenezer G., was born in South 
Kingston, R. I., April 30, 1831, moved to Tioga county in 1842, 
and practiced medicine in Nichols where he lived six years. He 
lived in Richford some years, and came to Berkshire, where he 
now lives, in 1874. He served in the late war in Co. E, 76th N. 
Y. Vols., and in Co. F, 50th N. Y. Vols., and received an injury 



1 62 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

of the spine near Yellow Tavern, Va. For seven years he has 
not been able to stand. 

Ezra Simmons was born in Little Compton, R. I., moved ta 
Moravia, N. Y., in 1829, living there until March 17, 1834, when 
he moved to Newark Valley, and located on the farm now owned 
by T. S. Councilman, where he died. He married Anna Luther, 
and reared five children, viz.: Eliza, deceased, Joseph, of T^ewark 
Valley, Sylvester, of this town, Mary (Mrs. T. S. Councilman), 
and Abbie, widow of Seth Watson. Sylvester was born in War- 
ren, R. I., October 9, 18 18, married Mary J., daughter of Calvin 
Jenks, of Berkshire, and has five children, namely : Florence L, 
wife of William W. Ford, Emory A., of Owego, Sarah, wife of 
Anson W. Pake, William E., of this town, and Anna E., wife of 
V. W. Schooley, oi Warwick, N. Y. 

Organization. — Berkshire was known as " Brown Settlement"^ 
until 1808, when the territory comprising Richford, Berkshire 
and Newark Valley was formed from Owego (then called Tioga)^ 
and given the name it now bears, from Berkshire county, Mass. 
Newark Valley was formed from Berkshire April 12, 1823, under 
the name of Westville ; and Richford was taken off, under the 
name of Arlington, April 13, 1831. These encroachments have 
left the town the smallest in the county. At the first town meet- 
ing, held Tuesday, March i, 1808, Ebenezer Cook was modera- 
tor, and the following officers were chosen : John Brown, super- 
visor ; Artemus Ward, town clerk : Esbon Slosson and Ebene- 
zer Cook, assessors; Henry Moore and Elijah Belcher, poor- 
masters; Noah Lyman, Hart Newell and Samuel Haight, 
commissioners; Peter Wilson, collector and poundmaster ; Jesse 
Gleazen and Adolphus Dwight, constables; Asa Bement, Na- 
thaniel Ford, Asa Leonard, John Bement, Lyman Rawson and 
Elisha Jenks, fence-viewers; Elisha Jenks, poundmaster. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Berkshire Village.— This neat, quiet little village, with its 
air of eminent respectability, is located upon the east branch of 
Owego creek, on the Southern Central railroad and near the 
center of the town. It consists of three general stores, one drug 
store, one hardware and furniture store, one harness-shop, one 
tailor-shop, one barber-shop, one shoe-shop, three blacksmith 
shops, two wagon-shops, one billiard room, one grist-mill, two 
saw-mills, one novelty works, one manufactory of wagon hubs 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 163 

and brewery shaving's, two manufactories of biam-house knives, 
and one sole-leather tannery, and about 300 inhabitants. 

The people of Berkshire and vicinity are justly proud of its 
beautiful and well-kept cemetery. Money and labor have not 
been spared in its care, and so impressed are the people of the 
northern part of the county that the cemetery organization is a 
permanent one, and that the grounds will ever be cared for, that 
the cemetery is being filled rapidly with dead of the northern 
part of this, and the adjacent portions of the three adjoining 
counties. Many of the soldier dead lie in this beautiful spot, and 
the Grand Army posts of this place, and also the one of Rich- 
ford, strew these graves of their comrades with flowers, and hold 
appropriate exercises the 30th of each May. The Cemetery 
Association was organized iu 1867. 

The first school was taught by David McMaster, in the shoe- 
shop of Josiah Ball, and the shanty of Josiah Wilson. This early 
interest in educational matters has never flagged. The schools 
■of Berkshire have enjoyed more or less celebrity. The district 
schools have received the support of the citizens generally, and 
select schools were popular and well patronized until the passage 
of the free s.chool act. In 1845 Rev. William Bradford founded 
the Brookside Seminary, which soon passed into the hands of 
Rev. Frederick Judd, and became noted as a training school for 
boys. Nor was the school a local one. The students came from 
adjoining towns and counties, and not a few have attained prom- 
inence in fields of politics, literature, and the arts and sciences. 
One mile south of the village existed at one time, a boarding- 
school for } oung ladies, but its existence was short. There is at 
present in process of erection, a handsome two-story school build- 
ing. 

Wilson Creek postpffice is located in the southern part of the 
town. 

The Berkshire Tannery was built by S. & J. W. Leonard & Sons, 
in 1849. ^^ was operated by water-power, and made upper- 
leather. .On May 12, 1865, it was purchased by the present pro- 
prietors,. Davidge, Horton & Co., who enlarged its capacity, and 
added steam-power. The tannery gives employment to forty 
hands, and turns out 40,000 sides of sole leather per annum. 

John Ball's Saw-Mill was built by Deodatus Royce, in 1849, 
and purchased by Mr. Ball in 185 1. It is operated by water- 
power, and cuts 300,000 feet of lumber per annum. 

TheBerkshire Flouring Mills, Leet & Hollenbeck, proprietors. 



164 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



was originally built by Judge David WiHiams, in 1818. The 
present building was erected by Mr. Williams, in 1839. It is 
operated by water-power, has three runs of stones, and <grinds 
annually about 40,000 bushels of grain. 

The Speedsville Creamery and Cheese Factory, located on road 18, 
was built by a stock company in 1868. The stock was subse- 
quently bought in by John Higgins and Lyman Kingman, and in 
1886 a half interest was bought by George R. Rounsevell. The 
milk of 400 cows is manufactured into butter and cheese annually. 

M. A. Owen & Brother's Cooperage, on road i, employs seven 
hands and turns out 10,000 butter tubs per year. 

Sherwood & H or ton s Hub Factory was established by Sherwood 
& Lamson, in 1882, and on the loth of the following January the 
firm was changed to its present title. They employ thirty hands 
and turn out about 25,000 wagon hubs annually. In March, 1883, 
the manufacture of beer shavings was added, in which quite an 
extensive business is done. 

Milo G.Japhet's Saw-Mill was built by C. B. Hemingway, in 
1883, and was purchased by the present proprietors in 1885. He 
manufactures 500,000 feet of lumber, 400,000 chair rounds, 500,000 
toy broom-handles, and 10,000 platforms for platform rocking- 
chairs per year, employing eight hands. 

Military History. — Frederick Shaff, a soldier of the revolution, 
died here in i860, at the advanced age of 107 years. Demas 
Orton a pensioner of the Mexican war died here in 1884, aged 
about 100 years. 

Although the vicinity of Berkshire was not without its slave- 
holders at an early day, there existed a general, and widespread 
opposition to this " peculiar institution " of the South for years 
preceding the rebellion, and the town was not without its 
members of the "underground railroad." Frederick Douglas 
and other slaves received substantial aid from this organization 
on their journey to Canada, Douglas having been a guest of the 
Hon. C. P. Johnson, an old abolitionist. Consequently, at the 
several calls for troops the town responded in men and money, 
the ladies assisting with hospital supplies. Charles R. Eastman 
and Earnest deVallier were the first to enlist, with Gen. Isaac 
Catlin, then Captain of Co. H., 3d N. Y. Infy. 

The total call during the war was for 115 men from the town 
of Berkshire, which was filled by thirteen drafted, all of whom 
paid $300.00 each, by the enlistment of forty one men from 
abroad, and the balance enlisted from the town. Of this number 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 165 



three deserted ; only nineteen are known to be living ; eighteen, 
or nearly twenty-eight per cent, were killed or died during their 
term of enlistment ; eighteen came home broken in health and 
died during the few succeeding years; the fate of sixteen is 
unknown ; and the balance are men whose health has suffered 
from exposure and hardships, whose best years were spent in the 
service of their country, — years which to most men decide their 
success in after life. 

Church History. — The first church building, a barn-like struc- 
ture, was located upon the farm of Dr. E. Mayor, and was then 
the only house of worship within the present limits of the county. 
Services were held morning and afternoon, with Sabbath-school 
in the interinti. The congregation was composed of residents 
scattered over a large territory. The roads new ancf almost ina- 
passable. No little devotion was evinced by these pioneers who 
remained in this well-ventilated structure four or five hours with 
no fire except that afforded by the " foot-stove," an almost obso- 
lete word to the present generation.' 

In 1817 a more pretentious church was built near the site of 
the former. The erection of the frame was the occasion of a 
demonstration, the like of which the valley had never seen. 
People came from a distance and remained three days, until the 
last timber was in place. 

There are now three churches in the town, — the Congrega- 
tional, the Methodist, at the village, and a Baptist church situ- 
ated in the northwest corner of the town. The Congregational 
society has existed since the beginning of the present century. 
They worshiped in a building three miles below the village until 
the completion of the one now occupied, in December, 1834. 

The society is a strong one and is in a prosperous condition, 
under the pastoral guidance of Rev. J. J. Hough. The Meth- 
odist church was organized in 1825, and in 1827 the present 
church building was erected, and the society, which has grown 
in strength and numbers, has in contemplation a handsome place 
of worship to be erected in the near future. Its present pastor 
is Rev. Mr. Beers. 



C 



ANDOR* the largest township in the county, lies in the 
central part of the same, and is bounded north by the county 
line, east by Berkshire, Newark Valley and a small part of 



* Prepared by Rev. Charles C. Johnson, late of Candor, now of Sherburne, N. Y. 



1 66 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Owego, south by Tioga and west by Spencer and a small part 
of the county line. It originally formed a part of the Boston 
and Flint Purchase, the history of which has been detailed in the 
opening chapters of this work. Of this location there were 
taken to make the present town the whole of Township 12, the 
northeast and southeast section of Township 9, southeast section 
of Township 10, and south half of Township 11. Prior to the 
completion of this arrangement, certificates of location and cer- 
tificates of survey had been granted in this town to John W. Ford, 
350 acres, January 23, 1794, known as Ford Location ; John Can- 
tine, 800 acres, where Willseyville now is, and known as the Big 
Flatt, and another plat of 1,200 acres; to James Clinton 200 acres! 
Nathan Parshall, 200 acres, these latter having been granted 
March 7, 1792, and all located on the road leading from the 
mouth of the Owego river to the head of Cayuga lake. The 
town was set off from Spencer, February 22, 181 1, and has an 
area of 51,334 acres, of which 33,572 acres is improved land. 

The surface of Candor consists of high, broad, rolling uplands, 
separated into ridges by the valleys of streams flowing south- 
erly. Its streams are the Catatonk, Doolittle, and Shendaken 
creeks. The Catatonk creek heads in a small marsh in the town 
of Spencer, and takes a southeasterly course of twenty miles, 
uniting with the Owego creek a short distance above its mouth. 
The valley along this creek varies from 2,000 to 3,000 yards in 
width. Shendaken creek enters the Catatonk at Booth Settle- 
ment. Doolittle creek is a small stream that joins the West 
Owego creek at Weltonville. The soil in the valleys consists 
generally of gravelly loam, and yields fine crops of wheat, corn, 
■etc. The uplands are better adapted for grass than grain. The 
hills, were originally mostly covered with hemlock and pine, and 
the valleys with heavy growths of pine, oak, beech and maple. 
In instances the pines have reached 175 feet in height and five 
ieet in diameter, and immense quantities of lumber of fine qual- 
ity have been manufactured and sent to market at an early day 
from this valley. The streams furnish abundant water privileges 
for manufacturing purposes, and saw-mills, grist-mills and tan- 
neries have long been in active and extensive operation. The 
farms are largely used for dairying purposes, and the connec- 
tions by the two railroads which cross the town, a history of 
which we have given in an earlier chapter, furnish ample oppor- 
tunities for shipping. 

Settlement and Growth.— "WidiX. part of the Watkins and Flint 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 167 

Purchase lying in the territor)- now designated as the town of 
Candor, was surveyed in 1793, by two men from Farmington, 
Conn. They were Capt. Joel_ Smith and Isaac Judd. Those 
who were thinking to settle here, selected lots of 104 acres each, 
for which they paid seven shillings per acre. 

The deeds were made out in June of that year, after which 
four men with their families came on from Connecticut, follow- 
ing from Owego an Indian trail leading up the Cattatong (now 
Catatonk) valley. They were Elijah Smith, Collins Luddington, 
Thomas Holiister, and Job Judd, S r. They halted at a spot near 
the present cemetery. Here the first trees were felled for actual 
settlement. 

Indians of the Onondaga tribe had a fort on the Ijank of the 
the Catatonk creek, and also wigwams in the western part of 
the town. They were then friendly to the white settlers, though 
in previous years white captives were imprisoned in the fort. 
Some of these captives were ransomed and sent back to Wyom- 
ing, Pa., by Amos Draper, an Indian agent living where Owego 
now IS. 

These first settlers began at once to fell the forest trees and 
et-ect for themselves habitations. Thomas Holiister built his 
log cabin on the lot now occupied by the cemetery. Elijah Smith 
settled near by. Collins Luddington began clearing the forest 
adjacent to Elijah Smith ; then moved down the trail, and cleared 
and built on the spot now marked by the home of Harvey Ward. 
J^objiidd went farther down the stream, and began clearing on 
the farm which has since for many years been the homestead of 
John Kelsey. Mr. Judd had been a soldier in the revolutionary 
armv. He moved in 1820 to Indiana. 

Joseph Booth, of Farmington, Conn., purchased a lot for his 
son. Orange F. Booth, in 1793, and had it deeded to him. The 
boy was then twelve years of age. In i8oi he came on and set- 
tled on the farm, where he spent the remainder of his days. His 
six sons settled in Candor, three of whom, Dennis, Orange and 
Edwin A., are now living. 

Another revolutionary soldier, Israel Mead, came in March, , 
179s, from Bennington, Vt., bringing his wife and five children 
with an ox-team and sled. He settled in the west part of the 
town, on the farm now owned by Mr. Schofield. His son, Wil- 
liam Mead, was the 'first white child born in what is now the 
town of Candor. 

Joel Smith, Jr., another soldier from- the patriot army, 



1 68 TOWN OF CANDOR. 

brought his family of wife and five children from Connecticut in 
the spring of 179S. He was a captain in the 3d Connecticut regi- 
ment, served through the war of the revolution, being present at 
the surrender of Lord Cornwallis, in 1781. He surveyed a por- 
tion of this territory in 1793. So accurate was he as a surveyor, 
that his surveys are referred to even at this day, to settle land- 
marks and titles. He taught school in Candor and Owego, and 
is spoken of as an active, energetic man, methodical in all his 
business, and living to the advanced age of eighty-seven years. 

Elijah Hart and David Whittlesey came to the settlement here- 
in the winter of 1794-95. They built a small grist-mill and a saw- 
mill where the tannery and saw-mill of John Ryan recently stood., 
This first mill was burned in 18 13. Abel Hart and his son, Capt, 
Abel Hart, Jr., came from Stockbridge, Mass^, to Choconut, now 
Union,. Broome county, in 1792 ; four years later Capt. Hart set- 
tled in Candor, building a plank house, which he enlarged by ad- 
ditions as need required. In this house religious meetings were 
held, and Capt. Hart having obtained a license. to keep a public 
house, also opened it as an inn for travelers. His wife was Rachel 
Smeden, of Union, N. Y., by whom he had nine children. His- 
son Abel, born September 23, 1814, married Louisa, daughter of 
Leonard Hall, of Danby, N. Y., by whom phe has three children, 
viz.: George H., Adelaide A., wife of Amos Hixon, of Ithaca, 
and Lewis A., of Candor. George married Mary Carter, of 
Greene, N. Y., and has one son, Albert C. Lewis A., married 
Carrie, daughter of William Young, of Binghamton, N. Y., by 
whom he has two sons, A. Ralph and Harold Lester. 

Thomas HoUister kept the first public house, in 1795. He also- 
built the first log barn, and the first framed house. Bringing the 
seeds from Connecticut, he raised young apple trees, and set out 
the first orchard in the new settlement. 

Settlements were made on the Big Flats in 1797. by Jacobus 
Shonich, and at Park Settlement by CagL_^ganiel^Park, Elisha 
Forsyth and Thomas Park. William Bates came from Owego- 
in 1796 and settled on the road to Wilseyvifle. His wife died in. 
Spencer, at the advanced age of 102 years. Capt. Eli Bacon and 
Seth Bacon settled here in 1798. 

In 1802 Russel Gridley settled in the west part of the town, od 
the farm now owned by his grandson, William C. Gridley, on 
the old road to Spencer, north side of the creek. He built the 
first framed house on that road. The next year Selah Gridley, 
his father, came oq from Farmington, Conn., and, with his son. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 69 

purchased 1,900 acres of land. He was an ex-soldier of the revo- 
lution, serving on Washingtons's body-guard. He appeared always 
well dressed, in the mode of the day ; long stockings and knee- 
breeches, shining shoe buckles, and three-cornered hat. Equally 
precise in his speech, he won the name of " Deacon Slick." Rus- 
sel Gridley moved over to the new road to Spencer, where he 
built a log house, leaving for several years the tree tops on the 
first course of logs. 

In 1805 Jacob Clark came from Orange county and bought in 
the east part of the town the first farm sold from the Isaac Bron- 
son purchase of 10,000 acres. His family came to the settlement 
with a team of horses. His brother, Samuel Clark, came a little 
before. The next summer hn bought the farm now owned by his 
nephew, Hiram Clark. Their nearest neighbor to the north was 
in Carolme, and on the south at Owego creek. Three years later 
Elisha Johnson settled two miles south, and John Brown just north 
of them, while Walter Hamilton located near. 

In 1806 a number of settlers with large, families located at 
Crine's Corners, in the north part of the town. Among these 
were Elias Williams, John and Joseph White, Pearson Phillips 
and Daniel Bacon. At the age of eleven years Harvey Potter 
came to Candor, with Dea. Asa North. He became a prominent 
townsman, and for niany years was an excellent leader of sacred 
music. 

In 1810 Capt. Hart built a framed house, in which he lived and 
kept a public house for many years He augmented his busi- 
ness with a blacksmith shop, and being a public spirited man 
he erected and run a distillery — then supposed to be a necessity 
in any civilized community, as no family wished to be without 
ardent spifits. In those days women had practical acquaintance 
with the loom, so Capt. Hart built a house for weaving. In the 
looms of this " weave house " three grades of woolen cloth were 
manufactured, and linen cloth woven for bedding and for frocks. 
In 1806 Capt. Hart and Thomas Gridley built a saw-mill, farther 
up the creek, and lumber was soon plenty enough to give every, 
log house a floor. Previous to sawed lumber, split logs were put 
down for flooring. These primitive log cabins were covered with 
a bark roof, supported by poles. Not unfrequently a large sec- 
tion of bark served as a door, and oiled paper admitted some light 
at the window. A few stones served as a fire-place, and an open- 
ing in the roof above them let out the smoke, and let in the day- 
light. Until fodder could be raised on the clearings, the cattle 



170 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



subsisted on rations browsed from fallen tree tops. A few pota- 
toes were early raised, and abundant deer in the forest furnished 
venison. Bears disputed with men the possession of the few 
swine they brought with them, and wolves made sheep hus 
bandry a precarious industry. Aleck Graham proved himself a 
mighty hunter, killing the bears and trapping the wolves. Grain 
was carried a long distance to mill, or bruised in a hard-wood 
stump, hollowed out for a mortar. A yard of calico print sold 
for one dollar, and a bushel of oatS sufficed to pay for a pound of 
nails. 

In 1805 the sons of Bissel Woodford came from Farmington, 
Conn. Chauncey and Ira settled at West Candor, and Cyrus in 
Spencer. Their cousins, Truman, Ozias and S3'Ivester Wood- 
ford also settled in town. Ebenezer Lake came in 181 3, and Elijah 
Blinn, Beri Strong and other neighbors formed the Blinn settle- 
ment, in 1814. Hon. Jacob Willsey from Fairfield, Herkimer 
county, gave his name to Willseyville, in 181 5. The Woodbridge 
families settled in the southern part, and John Kelsey in 1818. 

Mr. Lewis, the father of Thomas N. Lewis, bought 1,000 acres 
of the Watkins and Flint Purchase, but never lived in this region. 
In 1825 Jonathan B. Hart his nephew, came here from Connecti- 
cut as his agent. For many years he was the undertaker of the 
town, and was prominently identified with the earlier Sunday 
school interest in the community. 

At an early date there were twenty- two taverns on the road 
from Ithaca to O wego. This turnpike was established on an Indian 
trail in 1808. In 1797 a turnpike from Catskill Landing on the 
Hudson' river, was opened as far as the town of Catharine. Over 
this for many years were drawn supplies of iron, tin, dry goods 
and implements. The first store was kept by Philip Case, near 
the location of the North Candor station of the E., C. & N. R. R. 
Daniel Olivet taught the first school, in 1797. Joel Smith also 
taught school, and was the first justice of the peace. Dr. Horatio 
Worcester was the first physician. Horatio Durkee, came from 
Meredith, N. H., and built the first tannery, on the site now 
occupied by the woolen factory of Capt. Barager. Another 
tannery was afterward built, by John Ryan and Hiram Smith; 
the Estey tannery much later. After the disastrous fire which 
swept the settlement in 1813, Caleb Sackett erected a grist-mill, 
which was succeeded by a better one built by John Kirk and Mr. 
Tryon. A woolen-mill was erected in 1824, by the brothers Arte- 
mus and Isaac V. Locey. This mill was sold to Joseph Mathews 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 71 



in 1838. Isaac V. Locey manufactured wool-carding machinery 
for a series of years. 

Charles Frederick Barager was the youngest of eleven children, 
and the seventh son born to Samuel Barager and Ruhamah Sears. 
His father, Samuel Barager, descended from the Holland Dutch, 
and was born in Albany County, N. Y., in 1793. He served 
in the war of 18 12, and for his services in said war received aland 
warrant for 160 acres of government land, and before he died he 
was placed upon the U. S. pension. rolls, and after his death the 
pension was continued to his widow during her life. At the close 
of the war, in 18 14, he married Ruhamah Sears, and the year fol- 
lowing, 181 5, they came into the wilderness of Tioga county, and 
settled in the town of Candor. The name of SamueJI Barager is 
inseparably connected with the history of Tioga county and the 
town of Candor. On his arrival at his new home he taught 
school, and as the sparse population learned his worth they placed 
him in offices of trust. For many years he was supervisor of his 
town, and in 1829 was sent to the legislature as a member of 
assembly, and was the colleague of Millard Fillmore. On his 
return home from Albany, he was elected justice of the peace, and 
many times was elected associate judge. As the population in- 
creased, he grew in its esteem, and from far and near " Judge 
Barager" was referred to as the arbitrator of nearly every diffi- 
culty, the judge of nearly every dispute. In his official capacity 
he always advised friendly settlement, and when litigation could 
not be avoided the confidence of his neighbors in him and his 
judgment was such that an appeal therefrom was seldom taken, 
and when it was taken never reversed. He held office for over 
half a century consecutively, and died in the harness of public 
service, in April, 1871, full of years and good deeds, and the large 
concourse of trulv mourning friends who followed his remains to 
the grave, attested his usefulness by asking the question " Where 
can we find one to fill his place?" 

Mr. Barager's mother, Ruhamah Sears, was directly descended 
from Richard Sears, who came from England in 1620. Her father 
was Daniel Sears, w,ho came to Albany county in 1793, from near 
Danbury, Conn. Her father, Daniel, and her grandfather, Knowles 
Sears, served in the war of the revolution, the former as private, 
and the latter as captain. The mother of Rjihamah Sears was 
Catharine Warren, at whose home General Washington and staff 
often stopped, near Danbury, Conn. Ruhamah was born in Al- 
bany county, in 1796. She inherited the devoted, industrious and 



172 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



frugal nature so proverbial of her New England ancestry, so much 
so that her home duties and devotion to her family, and services 
and charity to her neighbors absorbed her life. Mentally she was 
remarkably clear and comprehensive. Religiously she was the 
embodiment of true piety. She was the true wife and the 
devoted mother, and no more expressive words can be said of her 
than her appreciative children had chiseled upon her monument 
in the cemetery in Candor, where she was buried in April, 1878, 
" Dear Mother, we still look up to thee." 

Charles Frederick Barager was born in Candor, December 5, 
1838. His boyhood was devided between the district school, the 
old homestead farm, and the " sports of the village green." 
Ambitious to know more of the world than could be learned in 
the quiet village of his birth, he started in the fall of 1859 fo'' ^ 
trip through the South. He spent nearly a year in St. Tammany 
Parish, La., and returned home in the fall of i860, satisfied, for 
the time being, with travel. He entered a select school and with 
renewed energy applied himself to the task of completing his 
education. .But in the spring of 1861 the alarm of war filled the 
land, and fresh from witnessing the crime of slavery, and filled 
with indignation, because it existed in our country boastingof its 
wonderful freedom, he dropped his books and enlisted under the 
first call for troops. May 21, 1861. He was chosen first lieutenant 
by his company, which was Co. K., and it was assigned to the 
26th N. Y. Vols. With this regiment he only served a few 
months, and returned home and raised another company, which 
was Co. H., 137th regiment. Of this company he was chosen 
captain, and with it he served during the war. At Gettysburg, 
on the evening of July 2, 1863, he was ordered by General Green 
to take his command and advance from Culps Hill and engage 
the advancing skirmish line of the enemy. The rebels were in 
such force that he was driven back to the light line of earth 
works from which he started, but in the engagement he was 
wounded and carried from the field. He was also wounded in 
the battle of Peach Tree Creek, Ga. He was engaged in the 
battles of Chancellorsville, Va., Gettysburg, Pa., Peach Tree 
Creek, Ga., Wauhatchie, Tenn., Lookout Mountain and seige of 
Atlanta, besides many minor engagements and skirmishes. With 
impaired health he was mustered out of the service at the close 
of the war and returned to his home, and as soon as his health 
would permit he again turned his attention to the acquirement 
of knowledge, and in i867.he entered the Albany Law University 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 173 



from which he graduated and was admitted to the bar in 1868. 
While in search of an inviting place to practice his profession in 
the Southwest, he became interested in the blackwalnut lumber 
business in Missouri and Illinois, and from that he engaged in 
other business enterprises, and finally abandoned his profession 
altogether. He grew oranges in Florida, was a merchant in the 
Red river valley of the north, and a lumberman on the shores of 
Lake Superior. In 1876 he returned to the old homestead, in 
his native village, to be with his aged mother and to give her 
that supreme satisfaction of spending her last days under the old 
roof which had sheltered her in joy and sorrow for so many 
years. Not wishing to be idle he purchased the Candor Woolen 
Mills, and operated them with such vigor and sucjpess that in 
1880 and 1881 he built a new mill, all of which he is now running. 
He was always an active Republican, but it was not until 1879 
that he became a candidate for office, in which year he was elected 
supervisor of his town, redeeming it from Democratic rule. He 
declined to become a candidate the second time ; he also declined 
the use of his name for office again, until 1883 he was persuaded 
to become the candidate for member of assembly, in his native 
county of Tioga. In 1882, and for the first time in more than 
twenty years, the Democrats elected the member in Tioga county, 
and to recover the lost ground Captain Barager was unanimously 
placed in the field and was elected by nearly four hundred 
majority. He was re-elected in 1884. In the assembly of 1884 
and '85 he served upon many important committees, and also 
served upon the special committee to investigate the armories 
and ars6nals of the State. He was appointed one of the com- 
mittee of the legislature to accompany the remains of General 
Grant from Albany to New York, and to attend his funeral in 
that city August 8, 1885. In 1885 he was elected senator of the 
26th senatorial district, by over 3,000 majority. During his term 
as senator he was chairman of the committee on poor laws and 
state prisons, and served upon other important committees. 
The convention of his county, July 15, 1887, unanimously 
recommended him for re-nomination, and allowed him to select 
the delegates to the senatorial convention. 

In the year 1867 Captain Barager married Mary Markell, who 
is directly descended from the French Captain Markell, who was 
with M. De Montcalm at the selge of Quebec. And Major An- 
drew Fincke, who was assigned by General Washington aid-de- 
camp to General La Fayette, on his arrival in this country, was 



174 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



her great-uncle. Among her nearer ancestry are the Markells, 
who early settled in "the Mohawk Valley, some of whom were 
John, Jacob and Henry Markell, who served as judges,, members 
of the legislature, and of Congress. They have had born to them 
four children. The eldest, Charles F., Jr., died in 1879. The 
living ones are Ruhamah Sears, Samuel Frank, and Vida Mary, 

Elijah Smith, one of the early settlers of Candor, came to this- 
town about 1790, and made the first settlement on the farm now 
owned by Amzi Smith, where he built the first framed house in 
the town. The building is still standing, though not now occu- 
pied as a dwelling. He purchased 200 acres, a portion of which 
is still owned by his grandchildren. He reared a family of six 
children, four of whom were sons, namely: Selah, Jesse, James, 
and Amzi. The last mentioned married Julia Potter, whose peo- 
ple were also early settlers of the town, and had born to him five 
children, as follows: Lucius, John, Philemon, Caroline, and Har- 
riet, all of whom are livijig. 

Ezra Smith came from Westchester county, and was one of the 
early settlers at Willseyville. He located upon the farm now 
owned by Morgan White,' whisre he resided until his death, in 
1818. He married Anna Cooley, who bore him four children, 
Waterbury, Jesse D., Hiram, and Ogden, all of whom located in 
that vicinity, and reared families. The eldest, Waterbury, and 
father of Wakeman B., of Candor village, was born in 1793, 
married twice— Abigail Bradley, who bore him one son, Wake- 
man, and second, PoIly^Coljurn^ who died without issue. Water- 
bury died in 1848, aged fifty-five years. Wakeman B., born in 
1817, married Emeline Barager, in 1841, and has four children, 
Mary C, Delphine, Fred^ and William B. - 

Jared, son of Joel and Lydia Smith, came with his parents 
from Connecticut, in 179S, and settled on the farm now occupied 
by Henry Smith, which farm they cleared. He married Sarah 
Ward, December 31, 1822. There were born to them four chil- 
dren, viz.: Angeline E., wife of David Burleigh, of Ithaca, Mary 
S., wife of D, H. Coon, of Montrose, Pa., Charles O., of Wa- 
verly, and Henry G., who now resides on the homestead. The 
latter married Rosa, daughter of Merritt N. Way, of Candor, 
in 1862, and has three children, Harry L., Sadie and Eva. 

Abel Galpin came from Stockbridge, Mass., about 1790, and 
made the first settlement on the place now owned by Asa Phelps, 
He married Mary Wright and reared thirteen children. Simeon, 
son of Abel, was five years of age when they came to Candor- 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 75 



He married Jane Taylor. a.nd had born to, him five children, as 
follows ; Samuel, Jasper, James, Abel F. and Jane, wife of Alex- 
ander Henderson. .Benjamin Galpin was born in 1790, married 
Martha, daughter of Levi Williams, an early settler, and reared 
seven children, six of whom grew to maturity, viz. : Jerusha, 
Franklin,' Mary, William, Fanny M. and Ann E, Caleb Galpin 
married Fannie, daughter of James Brink; and reared the fol- 
lowing children: Elisha, James, Martha, Polly, John, Ameck, 
Calvin arid Caleb W. Elisha married Jerusha, daughter of Ben- 
jamin Galpin, and eleven children were born to Ihem, namely, 
Martha A., Ezra, Mary L., Susan, Wealthy, Cordelia, Francis, 
Stephen D., Frankhn P., Myron E. and Mary E 

Hiram Williams came from Connecticut in 1795, and made the 
first settlement on the farm now owned by his grandson, William 
1. Williams. This place is known as Ford's Location, Mr. Ford 
having received 350 acres for his services as surveyor. Mr. Will- 
iams married Abigail Ford, who bore him six children, as follows: 
Betsey, Sally, Nancy, Eunice, Alfred and Ira. Alfred married 
Esther Lane, and reared six children, viz. : Susan, Mary, Pluma, 
Tracy, William I. and Edgar. Of these William I., who is the 
only one living, resides on the homestead. He married a daugh- 
ter of Stephen Gaskill, and has two children, Frank, of Clay 
Center, Kan., and Carrie, wife of Philander G. White, of Hobo- 
ken, N. J. 

Levi Williams, an early settler, married Jerusha, daughter of 
Zephaniah White, and reared six children — Joel, Martha, Ste- 
phen, Lewis, Anna and Uzal. 

Daniel Bacon was one of the first to make a clearing in the town, 
locating with Thomas Hollister on the ground where the Can- 
dor cemetery now is, as we have shown. They spent the sum- 
mer here, and returned to Connecticut, where they remained a 
year. The following year Daniel,, Seth, Eli and John F. Bacon, 
brothers, came here, the first three locating on road 97. John F, 
first settled in what is now Danby, but remained there only a few ■ 
years, when he came back to Candor, locating on the same road 
as his brothers. He married Sarah Galusha, of Salisbury, Conn., 
and reared six children, viz. : Abigail, Sarah, Alma, Mary, John 
G., and Cynthia D., only one of whom, John G., is living. The 
latter wa^ born in Danby, December 29, 1805, married Mary, 
dauarhter of Samuel Hull, and has had born to him four children 
— George, John J., Cynthia, and one who died in infancy. Of 
these George G. is the only one living. He rnarried Flavia L., 



176 TOWN OF CAKDOR. 



■daughter of Sterling J. Barbour, and has one child, Mary Belle, 
Daniel Bacon, son of Seth, was born in Woodbury, Conn., and 
came to Candor in 1805. He was for a long time colonel of state 
militia, was a millwright and a civil engineer. He married Susan,' 
daughter of Capt. Jesse Smith, of Candor, and reared five chil- 
dren — Esther, Seth, Theodore, Harvey and Eloise. Of these, 
three are living, Seth, of New London, la., and Harvey and 
Eloise, of Candor. 

Jasper Taylor, one of the early settlers in the eastern part of 
the town, came about 1795, locating in Weltonville. He had 
served in the revolution^ He married Maria Edmunds, and 
reared eleven children, viz. : Samuel, Jane, Levi, Jared, James, 
Calvin, Jasper, Luther, Robert, Maria and Catherine, all de- 
ceased. Jasper was born in Candor, in 1806, married Catherine, 
daughter of Charles Blewer, and had born to him three chil- 
dren, Mary, Samuel E. and William. The first saw-mill in Wel- 
tonville was built by this family. 

Joseph Schoonover, son of Benjamin, first located on the farm 
now owned by Samuel Barrett. He was elected one of the first 
officers of the town, in 181 1. He married Elizabeth Decker, and 
ten children were born to them, viz. : David, Ira, Daniel, Fay- 
ette, Franklin, Lydia, Hannah, Simeon, Jacob and Elias. The 
last mentioned was born in Candor^ January 5, 1812, married 
Mary, daughter of Reuben Chittenden, of Newark Valley, and 
reared nine children, as follows : Eudora, Oscar, Corolyn, Sarah, 
Olive, Mary, Lola, Joseph and Chloe. Of these, only four are 
living, Eudora, wife of James Miller, of Kirkwood, N. Y., Oscar, 
of Woodstock, la., Corolyn, wife of S. J. Northrup, of Montrose, 
Pa., publisher of the Montrose Sentinel, and Sarah, wife of B. R. 
Van Scoy. 

Caleb Hubbard was an early settler, first locating on the farm 
now owned by William H. and John F. Hubbard, in 1805. He 
was a carpenter by trade and built many of the early houses in 
the town. He married Mary Hull, aud seven children were born 
to them, namely, George, Achilles, Editha, Joseph, Mary, Caleb, 
and Phoebe. Editha, wife of Pinkey Clark, of Green Springs, 
and Phoebe, wife of Luther B. Wright, of Portage, O., are the 
only ones living. George Hubbard married Sophronia, daugh- 
ter of Isaac Judd, and had born to him four children, — William 
H., John F., Sarah and Eliza S., wife of Z. R. Easton. William 
H. married three times, first, Maria R., daughter of Daniel Hart, 
who bore him two children, Frances M. and Ella H., both de- 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 77 



leased ; second, Mary E. Hart, a sister of his first wife, who also 
bore him two children, Frances, wife of T. S. Booth, and Mary 
S., deceased ; and third, Elibbie N., daughter of Joel H. Strong, 
and has had born to him two children, George W. and Mertie E., 
both residing at home. John F. married Maria, daug'hter of Rev. 
Oaylord Judd, and resides in Denver, Col. Sarah married Rev. 
Charles W. Judd, and together spent eighteen years as mission- 
aries in India. Eliza S., daughter of George Hubbard, married 
Zenas R. Easton, of Delphi, and has five children, namely, Sarah 
F., George H., Charles J., Frederick R. and Wilbert A. Achil- 
les married Marilla Hubbard, by whom he had four children, 
viz.: Albert C, of Candor, Asa A., deceased, Harriet, (Mrs. 
George Nelson, of Caroline) deceased, Mariette, wj^e of Gran 
Tier, of Potter county, Pa. Albert C. married Mary, daughter 
of William Shroop, of Candor, by whom he has four children, — 
Addie, wife of Henry, M. Jewett, of Catatonk ; George W., of 
Candor; William W.,of Fairport, N. Y.; and Frank, who resides 
with his father. Mary, daughter of Caleb, married Northrup 
Edmunds, and had one child, Caleb W., who now resides in 
Candor. The latter married Laura E., daughter of Orton John- 
son, of Candor, and has one child, Cora J. 

Charles Henderson was born in Onondaga county, married 
Lydia Ray, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned 
by Nelson J. Galpin. 

Ahira Anderson, a native of Connecticut, came to Candor, 
from Vermont, about 1810, and located on the farm now owned 
by Philander Anderson, on Anderson Hill. He was a tanner by 
trade, married Martha, daughter of Daniel Anjjrfcjvs, and had 
born to him ten children, eight of whom grew to maturity, viz.: 
Chester, Johnson, Marshall, Almira, who married Lewis Pultz, 
Daniel, Mary, who married Andrew Carman, Amarilla, and 
Charlotte, who married Amzi Prichard. Of these, Amarilla, 
widow of John Wolverton, is the only one living. Daniel mar- 
ried Fidelia Frisbee, and reared six children. — Mary, Chester, 
Charlotte, Ezra, Frederick, and Edwin S. Johnson married 
Annice Preston, of Wallingford, Vt., and reared six children, as 
follows: Charles, LeRoy, Sylvenus, Emily, Fidelia, Joel and 
Philander. The last mentioned was born in this town, married 
Rebecca Andrews, and has had born to him four children, Eva A., 
wife of Fred A. Blewer, of Weltonville, Carrie L., Mary B., 
-deceased, and Frank L„ deceased. Mr. Anderson resides on the 
homestead where he was born. Marshall Anderson married 



178 • TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Hannah Harris, and had born to him eight children, viz.:- Jaraes^ 
Stephen, Mariette, Eliza, John, and three who died young. 
Charles LeRoy, son of Johnson Anderson, was borp, in Candor,.. 
June 13, 1820, married twice; first, Mary A., daughter of Jacob 
Shaw, and second, Cordelia, daughter of Elisha Galpin. Three 
children were born to him, Charles A., deceased, Ezra L., and 
one who died in infancy. 

Miles Andrews, son of Jesse, came to this town from Walling, 
ford, Vt., in 1810, making the first settlement on the farm now 
owned by Philander Anderson. He was a soldier of the jvar of 
1 312, married Electa, daughter of Asa Warner, and reared five 
children, namely: Levi R., Philetus, David W., George W. and 
Electa. Levi was born in Candor, January 16, 1821, married 
Julia, daughter of Thomas Barden, and five children were born 
to them, viz.: Asa, Mary A., wife of Thomas Gaige, ThomaSj. 
Romeo, and Franklin. David, son of Miles, married Theresa, 
daughter of Charles C. Howard, and the following children have 
been born to him: George F., Charles, Elmer, and Laura. Jon- 
athan Andrews, brother of Jesse, came here from Wallingford, 
Vt , in 1 8 10, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned 
by Joel Anderson. After living here several years, he moved to 
Newark Valley. He married Betsey Aldrich, and had born to 
him twelve children. His son Daniel married Lucinda, daughter 
of Lewis Pult. and reared seven children, viz.: Eliza, Lewis, Re- 
becca, wife of Philander Anderson, Johnson, of Newark Valley, 
Betsey, deceased, Heman and Ezra, of Newark Valley. 

Dr. Elias Briggs came from Massachusetts about 1810, and 
settled in Weltonville, where he practiced medicine for thirty-five 
years. He married Ruby Stebbins, by whom he had three chil- 
dren who arrived at maturity, viz.: Lyman, Ursula, and Mary L., 
who now resides in the village of Candor. Dr. Briggs died in 
1850. 

Lewis J. Mead, son of Lewis, was born in New Jersey, mar- 
ried Jane EUston, and came to this town about 1827, locating on 
West Owego creek, upon the farm now owned by Russell J. He 
reared six children, viz.: Elizabeth, Russell J., Asa E., Alanson, 
Sarah J., deceased, and William. 

Ezekiel Mead moved to Wayne county. Pa., from New Jersey, 
married Abigail Owen, and located in Owego in 1802, on the farm 
now owned by John B. Brownell. He had born to him six chil- 
dren, viz.: Benjamin, Joshua, George, Lewis, Aseneth, and Sarah. 
Joshua, who was two years of age when he came to Owego, has 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 79 



heen engaged in farilning and lumbering, married Abigail, daugh- 
ter of Henry Lewis, of Colchester, N. Y., and has seven children, 
Abel, Halloway, Ed<vard, William H., Charles, Riley, and Ezekiel. 
David P. Mead was born in Groton Hollow, August 28, 1815, 
arid came to Tioga county in 1867, locating in Candor village, 
where he has carried on the business.of wagon making. He mar- 
ried Mary P. Green, September 25, 1843, who has borne him three 
■children, Howard J., John G., and Emma K. (Mrs. Martin Will- 
sey). The eldest, How ard J ., studied law with Lyons & Donelly, 
of Ithaca, and graduated at the Albany Law School in 1873, and 
is now of the law firm of Mead & Darrnw, of Owego. He has 
served as district attorney six years. 

Cornelius Cortright was one of the first settlers in,!;he eastern 
part of the town, came from Delaware county, and in 1805 made 
the first settlement on the farm now owned by Samuel Cortright. 
He married Phoebe Decker in Delaware county, and both made 
the journey here on horseback, Mrs. Cortright holding their son, 
Simeon, who was then only five years of age, in her arms. Ten 
children were born to them, viz.: Simeon^ Jacob, Eleanor, 
James, Levi, Lyman, Edward, Phoebe, Margaret and Samuel. 
Simeon married Mary, da,ughter of George Lane, and reared 
twelve children, as follows : George, Henry, deceased, James F., 
Eliza A., wife of Levi Blewer, Margaret, deceased, Phoebe A., 
wife of William G. Blackman, Jane, widow of Hollister 
' Wright, Sarah A., wife of Van Debar Baker, of Owego, 
Maria, wife of George Burt, Elsie, wife of Henry Davi- 
son, of Newark, Lucy B., wife of D. O. Manning, of Dryden, 
and Mary G., wife of John Van Demark. James, son of Cornelius, 
was born January 18, 1809, married Esther, .daughter of Henry 
Jacobs, and nine children were born to him, six of whom are liv- 
ing, viz.: Charles, John, Hulda M., Augusta, Augustus and 
Alvah. 

Walter Herrick, born in Duchess county, March 9, 1781, was 
One of the early settlers in the eastern part of this town, locating 
in Weltonville, on the farm now owned by his son Walter, in 
1806.^ "lie married Minerva, daughter of Dr. Stephen Hopkins, 
■of Athens, and reared nine children, viz.: Edward, Charles, 
Celestia, wife of E. P. Miller, of Tunkhannock, Pa., Harriet, 
Maria, Stephen, Eliza, Minerva, wife of Jesse Phelps, of Flem- 
ingville, and Walter. 

Nathaniel Ketchum came from North Hebron, Washington 
.county, N. Y., about 1815, and located near Flemingville, in 



l8o TOWN OF CANDOR. 



the town of Owego, where he engaged in farming. He married 
Aseneth, daughter of Lewis Mead, of Owego, by whom he had 
seven children, viz.: Ezekiel, Eleanor, wife of Israel Johnson, of 
Candor, Joseph B., Henry, of Spencer, Sarah, wife of James C. 
Hannible, of Washington county, William P., of Candor, and 
Julia, wife of Henry Woodard, of Michigan. William P. married 
Lan}' S. Ivory, of Jacksonville, Tompkins county, N. Y , Jail- 
uary7, 1863, by whom he has had six children, viz.: Emma, wifeof 
Dey Rhodes, of Moravia, N. Y., Willie A. and Mary A. (twins), 
Daniel J., Charles H., and Jessey, who died at the age of two 
years and seven months. 

Sylvester Woodford came to this town, from Farmington, 
Conn., in 1805, and made the first settlement on the farm now 
owned by his son Sylvester. He married Diana Tillotson, and 
reared five children, namely, George, Luther, Chauncey T., Eliza, 
widow of Elbert Judson, of Danby, and Sylvester. Ozias, brother 
of Sylvester, came here at the same time, and settled where H. 
W. Loring now lives. They made the journey with an ox-team, 
arriving here about the middle of March. Church service was 
held for a long time in Sylvester's barn. Sylvester, Jr., was 
married twice; first, Jane, daughter of John Dykeman, of New 
Milford, Pa., who bore him two children, Frank S. and Jennie f Mrs. 
Charles Fiebig); and second, Martha J. Barto. His son Frank 
S. married Jennie Deyo, and has two children, Fred and Charles. 
Luther married Rhoda Potter, and reared four children, namely, 
Mary, wife of 0. L. Ross, of Owego, Louise M., Diana and 
Florence. 

Chauncey Woodford, son of Bissel, was born in Farmington, 
Conn., October 14, 1782, married Nancy, daughter of Asa North 
November 21, 1803, and came to this town in 1805. He made 
the first settlement on the farm now owned by his sons, Elbert 
and George. He came first in 1804 and built a rude log house, 
into which he moved his family. They were troubled by wild 
animals, which were very numerous at this time, and all were 
obliged to keep their sheep in pens. Truman Woodford, Ira 
Woodfoi-d, James North and Manna Hart also came from Farm- 
ington, and at about the same time. Bissel Woodford came about 
1825, and spent his last days with his children. He was a revo- 
lutionary soldier, and died September 3, 1835, aged eighty-one 
years. Six children were born to Chauncey Woodford, namely, 
Asahel, Emily, widow of Hiram Smith, of Lansing, Mich., Diana, 
who married Ogden Smith, Loisa, widow of Joseph Mathews, of 



TOWN OF CANDOR. igl 



Binghamton, Elbert C. and George. Elbert C, was born January 
8, 1823, married Sarah, daughter of Wright Dunham, of Nichols, 
and has two children, E. Jerome and Emma T. (Mrs. C. N. Day), 
of Spencer. George Woodford was born April 3, 1826, married 
Mary, daughter of William Loring, and has three children, Asahel 
H., Adelaid M. (Mrs. Charles F. Andrews), of Newark Valley, 
and Charles G. , who is engaged in the First National Bank, at 
Owego, 

TimothyC. Reed was born February 14, 1814, near Penobscot, 
Me., and came with his parents to Candor when but two years of 
age. For thirty-two years Candor village was his home. He 
was engaged in farming twenty-five years in West Newark, where 
he had a farm of one hundred and fifty acres. Here on May 3, 
1836, he married Sarah J., daughter of William RicharSson. She 
was born June 8, 1817, and now resides in Ross street, Owego, 
to which she came with her husband when he retired from farm life 
in 1874. Mr. Reed died April i, 1882. Their children are Frances 
D., born June 25, 1837, married S. O. Hayward, of Buffalo; 
Herbert B., born July 27, 1839, now living in Mount Morris; N. Y.; 
Sarah J., born December 16, 1845, married John L. Taylor, of 
Owego ; and Mary T. born May 20, 1849, married J. A. Willey, 
of Freeville, N. Y. 

Henry Hjcymer was born in Delaware, Pa., October 8, 1791, 
and came to Candor at the age of fifteen years. He married 
Hannah Van Gorder, and reared ten children. He died at Wel- 
tonville, June 10, 1877, aged about ninety six years. 

Solomon Hover came to this town, from Delaware county, in 
1807, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned by 
Benjamin Hover. He married Peggy Bolton, and reared ten 
children, viz.: Joseph, Elijah, Eleanor, Benjamin, Lod wick, Gilbert, 
Solomon, Katy, Henry and Sally. Of these Solomon and Henry 
are the only ones now living. 

Solomon Vergason came here from Standing Stone, near 
Towanda, Pa., in 1808, and made the first settlement on the farm 
now owned by Seth Hammond. His son David, who was only 
seven y©ars of age when they came, married Susan, daughter of 
Iddo Cass, and six children were born to them, namely, Stephen, 
Solomon, George, Iddo, Adelaide, and one who died in infancy; 

Samuel Hull, son of George Hull, Jr., and a lineal descendant 

'of George Hull, who came from England in 1630 and settled in 

Dorchester, Mass., was born June 15, 1755, married Freelove 

Kelsey, June 20, 1781, and reared twelve children, viz.: Jonas, 



1 82 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



James, Samuel, Lebbeus, Russell, Electa, Hubbard, Pheobe, Cur- 
tis, Catharine, Alanson and Hannah. Mr. Hull came to Candor 
in 1809, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned by 
his grandson, Nathan T. Hull. Samuel, Jr., was born July 9, 1785, 
married Sabrina Teall, and had born to him nine children, as fol- 
lows: James B., Clarissa R., Mary, Lydia M., Samuel, Catharine 
A., Henry H., Nathan T., and Elizabeth S. Nathan T. was born 
October 14, 1824, married Ada M., daughter of Daniel Oakley, 
and six children were born to them, only three of whom are living, 
namely, Elizabeth G. (Mrs. Hiram Henderson), Mary J. (Mrs. 
Charles Perkins), of Bradford, Pa., and Daniel O. 

George Douglass, came from Ireland, and made the first settle- 
ment on the farm now owned bj' William Douglass, in 1812. He 
reared three children, John, Charles and Jane. John married 
Emerancy, daughter of Caleb Cass, and had born to him six 
children, viz: Caleb, George, John, Mary, Emma J. and Olin. 
Charles married Julia, daughter of Sylvester White, and reared 
four children, Mary, Maria, Roxy and William. Jane married 
Robert Duff, and two children were born to them, George and 
Sarah. 

Reuben Fletcher was one of the early settlers in the western 
part of the town. He came from Moravia, and made the first 
settlement on the farm now owned by Laura Crura. 

Osgood Ward was born in New Hampshire, married Hannah 
Huggins, and came to Candor, from Kingston, Ont., in 1812. 
He lived several years on the place where Harvey Cowles now 
lives, and was the father of ten children, viz : Sarah, Nelson, 
Cynthia, Mary, Charles, Warren, Harvey, Adeline, Eliza and 
Hiram. Hiram was born at Kingston, January 16, 1802, came 
here with his father, married Adaline, daughter of William 
Stanley, and ten children were born to him, viz : Elmina, Susan 
Stanley, Charles, deceased, Adelaide, Oscar, Cynthia, Mary, 
Helen and Sarah. Susan lives in Berlin, Wis., Stanley lives in 
South Danby, and the others reside in Candor. 

.John J. Mclntyre, son of Samuel, was born in Washington, 
Vt., September 5, 1795, and came to Candor in October, 1813, 
with a yoke of cattle and a span of horses for his uncle, Ephraim 
Jones. He made the first settlement on the farm now owned by 
Theron Kyle. He went back to Vermont, and returned to this 
town the following winter with his father and family, and has 
lived here since that time. He married Betsey Williams in 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 183 



February,. 1817, and has had born to him seven children, six of 
whom are living. 

, James Ross came to this town from Barkhamsted, Conn,, in 
18 14. He married Sally Case, and the following children were 
born to him, Ralph, Ratus, Flavel, Alvira, Lester, Harry, Lydia, 
Edmund and Agnes. 

Daniel.Cowles and his son Rufus came to Candor, from Farm- 
ington. Conn., in 1809, and made the first settlement on the farm 
now owned by Mr. Ross. They were both brick and plaster 
masons. Daniel and Eunice (North) Cowles had five children 
born to them, namely, Rufus, Romeo, Shubael, George and 
Horace. Mr. Cowles died in 1870, aged seventy-nine years. 
Rufus married Rebecca, daughter of James Curran, jpf Spencer, 
and had eight children born to him, viz : Eunice, Emeline, 
Melinda, Daniel, James, Horace, and two who died young. 
Daniel and James are the Only ones now living. James C. 
married Helen, daughter of Hiram Ward, and has two children, 
Wallace J. and Nellie L. Romeo married Sally , daughter of 
Hiram Williams, and reared nine children, five of whom are 
living, viz.: Angeline, wife of Jesse H. Smith, Sarah, wife of 
Morris Humiston, Mary, wife of Jesse N. Sackett, of Great Bend, 
J. Harvey and Harriet (Mrs. Charles F. Jewett). 

Isaac Comstock, came to Candor, from Smithfield, R. I. He 
purchased a tract of land, consistingof 400 acres, on WestOwego 
Creek, in 1820. 

Captain William Scott came to this town, from Adams, Mass., 
in 1820. He made the first settlement on the farm now owned 
by Jonas S. Foster, his adopted son. 

Joel C. Strong located in this town abolit 1825 or 1830, coming 
here from Duanesburg, and made the first settlement on the farm 
now owned by his son Charles S. He married twice, first, Ann 
Lake, who bore h m one child, Martha A., widow of Hezekiah 
Whitmore, of Newark Valley, and secoiid, Olive Lake, who bore 
him five children, viz : Mary, wife of Julian Clinton, of Newark 
Valley, Josiah, Munson, Charles S. and Olive J., deceased. 

Bert Strong came to Candor, from Duanesburg, in the spring 
of 1816, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned by 
Robert Barden. He married Elizabeth Hatch, and had born to 
him eight children, viz.: Lewis, Hebron, Solomon T., Isaac B., 
Curtis B., Hannah A., Silas H., and Orrin. Hebron Strong mar- 
ried Irene, daughter of Benjamin Patch, and four children were 

13* 



1 84 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



born to him, of whom only two are living-, Anson B., and Wes- 
ley H. 

Daniel Lounsbury, son of Timothy, was born in Bethany, 
Conn., and located in Tioga in 1816, on the farm opposite the old 
cemetery near Tioga Center. He lived there about ten years,, 
years, then moved to Candor, and settled on the farm owned by 
George and E. C. Woodford. He married Sarah, da,ughter of 
Alanson Wooding, of Bethany, and reared five children, viz.:: 
Janet, Laura, David W., Daniel and Lucy. Of these, three are 
living, Janet, widow of John J. Harlen, David W., who is en- 
gaged in lumbering at Ettenville, and Daniel, of this town. The 
latter married Philinda, daughter of George Tuttle, and has one 
child, Lois E. Mr. Tuttle came here in 1833, and located on the 
farm now owned by Warren H. Tuttle. Lois E. married Frank. 
E. Dewey, and they have one child. Homer. 

Abel Owen came here from Trumansburg, in 1821, and mad& 
the first settlement on the farm now owned by Abel C. Owen. 
He married Millesent Robinson, and had born to him four chil- 
dren, Sarah M., Daniel R., Emeline Corson, and Abel C. 

Jonathan Hart, son of William, was born in New Briton, Conn., 
August 25, 1800, married Elvira Humiston, of Plymouth, Conn., 
and came to Candor in 1825, locating on the place where he now 
lives. He was engaged in the furniture and undertaking busi- 
ness here for forty-eight 3'ears. When he was twenty years of 
age he joined the Congregational church of New Haven, since 
which time he has been an active member of both church and 
Sunday-school. In 1822 he joined the order of Free Masons, and 
was an active member in Mount Olive Lodge. He organized 
Candor Lodge, No. 411, June 18, 1856, and worked under a dispen- 
sation until July 22, 1857, when they received a charter from the 
Grand Lodge, and he was elected the first master. 

Charles Dennis came to Candor, from Otsego county, in March, 
1826, and located on the farm now owned by Daniel Knapp. He 
married Emma Hoyt, and reared seven children, only two of 
whom are living, Edmund and Alfred. 

Josiah Hatch came here from Duanesburg, in March, 1823,. 
and made the first settlement on the farm now owned by Charles- 
Strong. He married Polly, daughter of Solomon Doty, and 
had born to him five children, only two of whom grew to matu- 
rity. Elsie B., wife of Russel Mead, and Parker. 

Stoughton S. Downing, son of John, was born in Lincoln, Vt., 
June 20, 1818, came to Candor in 1837, and married Jane, daugh- 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 185 



ter of Daniel Searles. He has four children, namely, J a)' S., 
Lincoln L., Ray M. and Delia A. 

Mansfield Bunnell, son of Solomon, was born in Plymouth, 
Conn., where he married Sophronia Miller, and moved toOwego 
in 1834. He lived there two years, then came to Candor, and, 
with Sidney Hayden, purchased a farm of Rev. Jeremiah Os- 
born, where they. began the manufacture of brick. Mr. Bunnell 
had one child born to him, Florilla S., who married John Whit- 
ley, Jr., and has one child, Noel B. The latter is engaged in the 
insurance business, at Tavares, Fla. 

Charles C. Howard, son of Stephen, was born in Schuyler 
county, in June, 1805, and came to Candoi" in 1830, locating on 
road 36. He married Laura O., daughter of Jonatstian Phelps; 
and nine children were born to him, viz.: Warren, Minerva A., 
wife of Samuel Benjamin, Theresa J. (Mrs. D. W. Andrews), , 
Charles, of Alpine, N. Y., Rhoda M. (Mrs. Morgan Eastman), 
Margaret E. , wife of S. F. Kyle, Hiram O., Loring P., pastor of 
the Methodist Episcopal church at Spencer, and Laura E., wife 
of L. E. Baker, of Spencer. 

Rowland Van Scoy, son of Samuel, married Rachel, -daughter 
of Isaac Drew, and reared three children, namely, Isaac D., Row- 
land S., a banker at Maple Rapids, Mich., and Sally. Isaac D. 
was born in Kent,. N. Y., and came to Tioga county in 1837. He 
lived fourteen years near Weltonville, and then purchased and 
made the first settlement on the farm where he now lives. He 
married Julia A., daughter of Josephus Barrett, and has four 
children, as follows: Knowlton, Burt R., Josephus and Ann B. 
'Josephus is engaged in fruit growing in Smithville, Md. Burt 
R. was born in this town, December 16, 1837, and married Sarah 
E., daughter of Elias Schoonover. He served in the late war, 
in Co. B, 2ist N. Y. Cav. In 1865, he purchased the farm where 
he now lives. He has five children, namely, Ada D., Lulu, Ber- 
tha, Drew and Mabel. 

Rodaker Fuller, son of David, was born in Colchester, June 5, 
1809, married Fernunda, daughter of David Brown, and has one 
child, Samuel G. He made the first settlement on the farm 
where he now resides. 

• VanNess Barrott,. son of Josephus, was born in Kent, N. Y., 
married Deborah Wixom, and came to Candor with his family in 
1834. He purchased the farm where Elliott Barrott now. lives, 
which he subsequently sold, and purchased the farm and saw- mill 
owned by his son, Samuel R. He was one of the first to engage 



1 86 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



in the dairy business, and many people used to come to his house 
to see him make butter, and learn how it was done. He made 
and used the first churn power used in this section, it being the 
tread wheel, similar to that used at the present time. He was 
also at one time engaged in lumbering. He reared seven chil- 
dren, viz.: Samuel R., Simeon W., of Candor, fosephus, of 
Newark Valle}', Amial W., Betsey, Phoebe, wife of Nathaniel 
Sherwood, of Apalachin, and Marilla, wife of George Thomas. 

John E. Robbins purchased and made the first clearing on the 
farm w^ere he now lives, in 1847. 

William L. Fessenden, son of Henry, was born at Montrose, 
Pa., September 10, 1816, and at an early age learned the trade of 
a cabinet-maker. After living in various places, he located at 
PeruviHe, where he carried on the furniture and undertaking 
business for twenty-one years. While here he joined the Meth- 
odist Episcopal church, and became a local preacher. Later he 
joined the Wesleyan Methodist society, and was ordained as a 
minister in April, 1858. He married Adaline, daughter of David 
George, and has six children, viz.: Mary A., wife of George T. 
Brooks, Harvey G., of Waverly, Charles H., of New York City, 
Geograny, David S., and William N., of New York city. 

John M. VanKleeck, son of Laurence, and grandson of John L., 
■was born in Clinton, February 9, 1805. His father and grand- 
father moved to Danby, in 1806. John M. married Amy, daugh- 
ter of William Brock, and came to Candor in 1834, locating on 
the farm where he now resides. He has had born to him three 
children — Phebe A., deceased, Charles H., and John J., of 
Owego. 

William Richardson moved to Newark Valley, from Attleboro, 
in 1818, and located on West Owego creek, on the farm now 
owned by Munroe Barrett. He married Millie Capron, and 
reared eight children, as follows : William, deceased, EHas, of 
McGrawville, Millie, deceased, Horace, of Candor, Fanny, Han- 
nah, wife of George Waldo, of Waverly, Jane, widow of Timothy 
Reed, and Nancy. 

Samuel Miller moved to Newark Valley, from Sennett, about 
1836, purchased 500 acres of land in the western part of the town, 
and built the first saw-mill on the place now owned by William 
Custard. He married Eunice, daughter of Daniel Storke, of 
Sennett, and reared thirteen children, viz : Emeline, wife of 
Peter Sitzer, of Auburn, Julia, Cyrus, who resides in Tunkhan- 
nock, and is president of the bank there, Nancy, Daniel, a 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 187 



physician in this town, John, of Horseheads, William, also of 
Horseheads, Lucinda, wife of Alanson White, of Sennett, Augus- 
tine, of Candor, Ellen A.^ wife of Walter Herrick, of this town, 
Frank G., of Iowa, Peter, of Tunkhannock, Pa., and Emmett, of 
Horseheads. The children were all living' when the youngest 
was thirty years of age, yet the father and mother had never 
seen all their children at one time. Augustine married Charlottis 
A., daughter of Collins Maine, of DeRuyter, N. Y., and has one 
child, Fred. The latter resides at home, and is engaged in stock 
dealing. He married Mary F., daughter of Edwin and Polly 
Webster, and has two children, Burt W. and Edwin A. Dr. 
Daniel S. Miller was born in Sennett, N. Y., June i, 1823. He 
studied in the public schools and at the Berkshire ]V(f dical Col- 
lege, of Pittsfield, Mass., in 1847. He began practice at Mart- 
ville, N. Y., and came to Candor in 1851, and has practiced here 
since. He married Helen J. Caruth, in 1848, and has had one 
child, Ada, who became the wife of William R. Wardwell and 
died in 1876. Mr. Miller has held the office of supervisor. 

Dr. John C. Dixon was born in Gilbertsville, Otsego county, 
November 12, 183 1, and in 1839 went to Owego to reside with an 
uncle, his parents having died. In 1845 his uncle. Rev. John 
Bayley, located in Candor, and Dr. Dixon came with him. He 
studied with Dr. L. Sullivan, and graduated at the Albany Med- 
ical College in December, 1854, began practice here, but shortly 
removed to Minnesota, where he resided until after the war broke 
out, when he entered the service and remained two years, or till 
the close of the war. After this he returned to Candor and has 
been in practice here since. Dr. Dixon married Sarah Frances, 
daughter of Daniel Hart, in December, 1856; - 

Dr. William E. Roper was born in Danby, N. Y., February 
t8, 1853, studied in the common schools, at the Ithaca Academy, 
and graduated at the Homeopathic Hospital College, of Cleve- 
land, Ohio, in March, 1881, and immediately began practice in 
Candor, where he has since resided. He married Eliza Holmes, 
December 29, 1880, and has one child, a son. 
■ William J. Cole was born in New Jersey, October 5, 181 5, and 
came to Tioga county in 1850, locating on a farm in the town of 
Tioga. In 1868 he was appointed steward of the county house 
in Owego, where he remained four years, and in 1872 came to 
Candor village, where he has resided since. He married Susan 
Elston, who bore him five children, four of whom are living, viz.: 
Chauncey A., Sarah E., (Mrs. Frank Finch, of Alfred Center), 



1 88 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Kate (Mrs. C. J. Dodge, of Binghamton), and Arminda (Mrs. 
Eugene Hollenbeck). Mrs. Cole died in May, 1886, and in 
November, 1886, he married Mrs. Maggie S. Clowes, of Wat- 
kins. N. Y. 

Elbert O. Scott was born in Franklin, Delaware Co., N. Y., 
March 6, 1839, studied in the pubhc schools of his native town, 
studied law with Hon. W. C. Lamont, of Richmondville, and 
was admitted to the bar in May, i860, and has been in practice 
here since 1866. 

Dr. Algernon J. Harris was born in Candor, July 31, 1859, ^ 
son of Dr. James J. Harris, who died here in 1863, after several 
years practice in the village. Dr. Harris studied in the public 
schools of Candor, graduated at Eastman's Business College, 
Poughkeepsie, N. Y., in 1876, studied medicine with Dr. L. D. 
Farnham, now of Binghamton, N, Y., and graduated at the Col- 
lege of Physicians and Surgeons in New York City, in May, 1882, 
practiced in Wayne county, Pa., one year, and then came to Can- 
dor village, where he has since resided. He married Miss Josie 
C. Williams, June 25, 1884, and has one child, a son. 

Henry Hull came from Vermont and located on Anderson Hill 
very early in the history of the county. He married Nancy, 
daughter of Clark Delano, by whom he had seven children, viz.: 
Susan, Oren and Oscar, deceased, Leonard, of Candor, Mary A., 
widow of the late Leonard White, Alfred, of Owego, and Calvin, 
of Phelps, N. Y. Leonard, who was a member of Co. K, 179th 
N. Y. Vols., married Adeline, daughter of William White, of 
Candor, by whom he has three children, viz.: Mina, wife of Aionzo 
Harding, of Catatonk, who has one child, Eugene; Frederick E. 
and William Franklin. Alfred married Perihelia, daughter of 
Augustus Clark, September 17, 1862, by whom he has two chil- 
dren, Byron O., born April 2, 1867, and Rosetta, born May 21, 
1870. 

Augustus Holmes came from Albany county, N. Y., to this 
town in 1821, where he engaged in farming. He married Waty 
Tanner, of Duchess county, by whom he had eight children, viz.: 
Susan, Ebenezer, deceased, Samuel, of Candor, Cinderella, wife 
of William Doolittle, deceased, Caroline, the present wife of Will- 
iam Dooliltle, John T., Job, deceased, and Rufus, of Newark 
Valley. 

1 V Osgood Ward came from New Hampshire to Canada where 
he remained about one year, and then removed to Montrose, Pa., 
and thence to Candor, where he located on the farm now owned 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 89 



in part by Mr. Seaman, about the year 1813. He married Han- 
nah Huckins, of Portsmouth, N. H., by whom he had twelve chil- 
<iren, viz: Sarah,wifeofJared Smith, deceased, Hiram, of, Candor, 
Eliza, wile of Ansel Hubbard, Mary A., wife of Almon Woodruff, 
•of Dakota, J. Nelson, deceased, Cynthia, widow of J. B. Bacon, 
•of Candor, Charles, deceased, Warren A., who died at the age .of 
•seventeen years, Harvey H., of Candor, Adeline C, wife of A. A., 
McGill, of Missouri, and two who died in infancy. Harvey H. 
•married Phoebe B, daughter of Nathaniel Spaulding, of Ithaca, 
by whom he has had two children, Alia, who died in Manistee, 
Mich., in October, 1882, leaving a widow and one child, Harold ; 
and Luella Spaulding Ward, wife of W. J. Terry, of Ithaca, N. Y., 
.and who has one child, Jerome Ward Terry. , 

William White came from Vermont many years ago, and located 
in Spencer. He married Phoebe Rundle, by whom he had' twelve 
•children, eleven of whom arrived at maturity. Their names are 
John, Lucinda, wife of Charles Frisbie, of Halsey Valley, Maria, 
wife of William Ross, of Wisconsin, Azubah,'wife of William 
Brown, of Iowa, Elnathan, Lavinna, wife of Peter Cinnamon, 
■of Hudson, N. Y., Eveline, wile of George Campbell, of New 
Albany,, Pa., Lewis, deceased, Sewell, who died in the army, 
Leonard and Adeline, wife of Leonard Hull, of Candor. Leonard 
married Mary A., daughter of Henry Hull, by whom he had two 
children, Alice Isabel, wife of Jerome Van Zile, and Emily O., 
wife of Frederick Hover, of Candor. Leonard White was a. mem- 
ber of Co. H., 137th N. Y. Vols., and was killed in the battle of 
Lookout Mountain, November 28, 1863. 

Aaron Lovejoy, son of Nathan, was born March 17, 1817, and 
came to Candor in December, 1834. On December 25, 1839, he 
married Mary Curtiss, by whom he had four children, born as 
follows : Horace A., October 5, 1840; Mary E., December 14, 1841; 
Lyman. B., February 26, 1843; and Emeline, December 13, 1844. 
Mrs. Lovejoy died December 27, 1844, and on June 8, 1845, Mr. 
Lovejoy married Sarah J. Bundy, by whom he' had eight chil- 
dren, vi^:..: Elam, born July 27, 1846; Caroline, March 3, 1847 ; 
Lucy A., October 9, 1849; Willard A., July 27, 1851; Orph.a 
March 16, 1853; Silas, April .14, 1855 ; Sarah, January 30, 1858; 
.and Frank, April 12, 1861. The second Mrs. Lovejoy died April. 
.9, 1881, and Mr. Lovejoy, January 30, 1885. Lyman ,B. married 
Phoebe A- Jordan, of Candor, June 21, 1875. Their children, are 
Aaron L., born August 15, 1866, Frank S. and Fred W. (twins), 
born January 30, 1868, Thomas S., June 8, 1870. Mrs. Lbvejoy 



I go TOWN OF CANDOR. 



died November 14, 1874, aged twenty-eight years. His second- 
wife is Mandana A. Gillivaray, whom he married June 30, 1875* 
and their children are Nettie M., born July 10, 1876, Almond B., 
February 18, 1879, ^"d Mary E., March 26, 1882. Fred W. died 
January i, 1868. Willard A. married Nellie, daughter of William 
H. Decker, of Candor, October 24, 1874, by whom he has had' 
five children, born as follows: Evalenia, March 17, 1876, Minnie 
M., May 21, 1878, Myrtie May, October 3, 1880, Freddie Leroy, 
December 23, 1882, died June 28, 1883, Bessie, born May 8, 1884,. 
and Clyde L,, March 20, 1887. 

Richard Field came from Swaford, Oxfordshire, England, in 
November; 1854, and located in Spencer, where he engaged in 
farming and in which occupation he continued for five years. 
He then engaged in mason-work, and in 1868 came to Candor, 
where he built the first house on Mountain avenue. He married 
first, Sarah Smith, by whom he had eight children. His present 
wife is Malvina (Jackson) Hooper, by whom he has one child. 

Cyrenus Elmendorf was born in Hopewell, Orange county^ 
N. Y., in February, 1826. At the age of ten or twelve years he 
obtained work at Homowack, Sullivan county, N. Y., and after^ 
ward learned the carpenter and joiner trade in that place. He 
removed from there to Candor village in 1855, where he engaged 
in building operations, principally that of bridges. In partner- 
ship with John J. Sackett he built the Hulmboldt Tannery, in 
1859, and carried on the business of tanning in connection with 
others under the firm name of C. Elmendorf & Co., until 1865, 
He then disposed of his interest to Hoyt Brothers, of New York. 
In 1858 he bought the foundry here and in the name of S. Hor- 
ton & Co. conducted^the manufacture of stoves and agricultural 
machinery. He married, first, Hannah, daughter of William 
Lewis, of Ulsterville, Ulster county, N. Y., by whom he had 
seven children, viz.: Perthena A., wife of L. D. Willard, of Can- 
dor, William C, of New Jersey, Esther, wife of John Coglan, of 
Candor, Charles, who died at the age of eight years, Lucas, of 
Candor, Eloise, wife of Edward Blynn, of McLean, N.'^Y., and 
Clarence, who is engaged with his father. During the greater 
part of Mr. Elmendorf's residence in Candor he has been actively 
and prominently identified with its business interests. His pres- 
ent wife is Nancy (Wells) Leet. 

J. W. Henderson was born in Starrucca, Pa., in 1834, and came 
to Candor in 1859, where he was employed in the Hulmboldt 
Tannery for about eight months. He then went to Berkshire, 



TOWN OF CANDOR. igi 



where he entered the employ of Davidge & Horton, where he 
remained for seven years. He then returned to Candor, and 
from there went to Etna, N. Y., where he managed a large da^ry 
farm for E. S. Estey, until 187 r, when he returned to Candor a 
second time, and took charge of the Hulmboldt Tannery, as- 
superintendent. Mr. Henderson married Caroline, daughter of 
Isaac Baker, of this town, by whom he has two children, Nellie- 
E., and Fred D. 

Frederick Parmele was born in Guilford, Conn., March 28,, 
1814, and in 1840 came to Owego, where he lived until 1855, when-^ 
he went to Kentucky, and remained about five years. He thea 
returned to this county, and located in Candor, where he engaged 
in the wheel-wright business, which he conducted here for twenty 
3^ears. He married Harriet, daughter of Stephen Dexter, in^ 
1841. Their children are C. Frederick, of Hastings, Neb., 
Stephen R., of Brooklyn, N. Y., Ella, who died at the age of five- 
years, and George D., of Rochester, Minn. 

William L. Carpenter, son of Eli and Sarah (Van Renselaer) 
Carpenter, was born in Greenbush, N. Y., August 16, 1799 In 
1813 he went to Salina, now a part 'of the city of Syracuse, where" 
he remained more or less for live years, assisting in the work of 
boring for salt water. At that time there was nothing where the- 
city ot Syracuse now stands, but a tavern, a small store, and a 
few houses, all surrounded by a dense alder swamp. In the fal 
of 'iSig he went to Watertown, N. Y., where he remained about 
four years, engaged as a machinist with William Smith, who- 
owned a large machine shop on an island in the Black river, and 
which was within the corporate liriiits of the village-. Here he^ 
married Sarah, daughter of William Smith, by whom he had two- 
children, Matthew, late of Wisconsin, and Sarah, wife of William- 
Fell, of New Bedford, Mass. Mr. Carpenter lost his wife in 1831. 
He then went to New Orleans, and after eight years returned to- 
Binghamton, N. Y., where he married Lauretta Towsley, Janu- 
ary 9, 1839, ^nd by whom he has had six children, viz.: Mary J.,. 
wife of William Hunt, Lewis S., deceased, William J., of Bing- 
hamto&,= Lucy, wife of-Burton Sherwood, of Varna, N. Y., Sarah 
L., wife of Fred Hoag, of Binghamton, and Orly V., of Candor.- 
About 1867 Mr. Carpenter came to Candor, where he has been- 
cnnditcfing the business of machinist and wagon worker. He 
joined the order of Free Masons in Chittenango Lodge, No. 128,, 
Chittenango, N. Y., January 14, 1821, and is probably one of the- 
oldest living masons in the state. 



192 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Anthony M. Tyler, a soldier of 1812, was one of the earl}' set^ 
lers in the town of Newark Valley, and was an early and earnest 
supporter of Methodism in this section. He married Hairiet 
W., daughter of William S. Packer, of Albany county, N. Y., 
and sister ot William S., Jr., who instituted and endowed the 
Parker Institute of Brooklyn. T^eir children were Harriet, 
who married Silas Tappan, Nancy A., who married Ezekiel No- 
ble, of Newark Valley, William S., who died in the army, Jo- 
seph A., who married Morgiana Forsyth, Eunice A., wife of 
Eldredge Forsyth, of Owego, Oscar, who removed to Ilinois, 
■where he died, John J. and Sanford A., now of DeKalb, 111. 

Reuben Allen came with his father, when quite young, to 
Newark Valley, and settled three miles from the village between 
East creek and West creek. He married Myrinda, daughter of 
John Watkins, of Newark Valley. There were eleven children 
born to them, namely : Lucy, George, Lydia, M. Sarah, Charles, 
P- Maria, Grace A., John R., Amasa, Mary and Martha. P. 
Maria married Louis F. Durussel, of Owego, July 4. 1857. They 
have three children, Mary Ella, born August 27, 1854; George 
Alfred, born December 11, 1856, and Anna Martha, born March 
29, 1858. 

Augustus Clark, son of Austin, came with his parents from 
Massachusetts when he was about seventeen years of age, and 
settled on what is known as Anderson hill, in Candor, where 
they cleared a farm and built a log house. Mr. Clark assisted in 
the construction of some of the first roads, and having learned 
the carpenter's trade, aided in erecting some of the earlier 
houses of this section. He married first, Betsey Darling, by 
whom he had four children— Polly (Mrs, Charles Farnham), Al- 
vin, Clarissa (Mrs. James Stewart), and Horace. His second 
wife was Mary Decker, by whom he had two children, James 
and Mary. His third wife was Sarah Gould, by whom he had 
SIX children, namely, Almira (Mrs. Ransom Pultz), Elizabeth, 
(Mrs. Herman Berry), Jane, Emily (Mrs. John Voung), Sarah 
(Mrs. Joseph Decker), and Permelia (Mrs. Alfred Hall). Mr. 
Clark was aflicted with blindness for thirty-three years of his 
life. He died in July, 1862, and Mrs. Clark died in 1868. Jane 
married William Gould and has two children. Amanda (Mrs. 
John Bingham), and Ephraim C. 

John Kelsey was born in Kensington, Conn., May 2, 1796, the 
youngest of the six children of William and Dorothy (Good- 
rich) Kelsey. In 18 18 they removed to Candor, John being then 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 1 93 



twenty-two years of age. He settled on the farm where he spent 
the remainder of his days, living in one place nearly sixty-nine 
years. He married first Rachel Potter, of Candor, with whom 
he lived seven years. There were no children by this marriage. 
After her death he married Mary Ann Woodbridge, of Salem, 
Pa., in 1837, who bore him six children, of whom five still sur- 
vive, one dying in infancy. Those living are Mary E., who mar- 
ried Norman Hart, September 7, 1865; Laura Ann, unmarried; 
John Woodbridge, who married Matilda Simms in September, 
1864, served m the late civil war nine months; and the other two 
children are Sarah A. , and Dora G., who are at present living in 
the old home The mother of these children died January 17, 
187s, sixty-four years of age. John Kelsey survived the last wife 
eleven jears, and at his death, March 7, 1886, lackecf but eight 
weeks of ninety years. 

The comparative growth of the town may be seen by the fol- 
lowing citation from the census reports for the several enumera^ 
tions since its organization : 1820, 1.655 ! 1825, 2,021 ; 1830, 2,656; 
1835, 2,710; 1845, 3,422; 1850, .3,433; 1855, 3.894; i860, 3,840; 
1865,4,103; 1870,4,250; 1875, 4,?o8; 1880,4,323. 

Organization. — At a town-meeting of the town of Candor, 
iholden March 5, 181 1, at the house of Captain Abel Hart, the 
meeting proceeded to the choice of town officers. The follow- 
ing persons were chosen : Joel Smith, supervisor; Asa North, 
town clerk ; William Scott, Orange F. Booth, Samuel Smith, 
assessors; Nathaniel Sackett, Seth Bacon, Charles Taylor, com- 
missioners of highways ; Truman Woodlord, constable and col- 
lector ; Abel Hart, Asa North, overseers of the poor ; Eldad 
Picket, Daniel Parks, constables ; Joseph Delind, Charles Taylor, 
Eli Bacon, Job Judd, fence-viewers and damage-prizers ; Thomas 
Parks, James McMaster, Ezra Smith, poundmasters; Jacob Har- 
rington, Seth Bacon, Ozias Woodford, Joseph Kelsey, Daniel 
Cowles, George Allen, Reuben Hatch, William Taylor, Joseph 
Schoonover, Thomas Baird, Daniel H. Bacon, Jacob Clark, Alex- 
ander ScQtt, overseers of highways of thirteen districts. 

Thomas Gridley, familiarly known as " Squire Hemlock," had 
delegated to him the privilege of naming- the new town. Why 
the name of Candor was chosen is a matter of conjecture. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Candor Village. — For many years this place was in two 
settlements, known as Candor Corners and Candor Centre, but 



194 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



the gradual growth of both have united them, and they are 
now known as the village of Candor It is situated on the Cata- 
tonk creek, nearly in the centre of the town, and is a station on 
the Cayuga and Susquehana division of the Delaware, Lacka- 
wanna and Wesern Railroad. The first settlement in the town 
was made upon this site, and many of the descendants of the 
early settlers are now living here. It has a population of about 
I, loo inhabitants, and is a thriving manufacturing village. 

WiLLSEYVlLLE, a.post village, is situated on what was known as. 
the Big Flat or Cantine location, and is on the north branch of 
the Catatonk creek, in the northwest part of the town. A map 
of the lands about 1817 shows that Christian Hart had settled fifty 
acres on the south side. Jack Chambers on one hundred acres next 
north, Jacobus Shenich two hundred acres, where the depot now 
is, and on this place he kept tavern as early as 1798. November 
I, 1809, he sold to Ezra Smith, who kept the tavern until 1812 or 
1813, when it burned down. 

Weltonville is a small post village, located on the east line 
of the town, on West Owego creek. It contains a postoffice, 
backsrnith-shop, wagon-shop, and school-house. It was named 
in honor of Rev. A. J. Welton. Jasper Taylor, Cornelius Cort- 
wright, and others came in here at an early day. They built 
their first houses at the base of the hill, fearful that the flats would 
be covered with water. 

West Candor, a post village, was commenced bj' Israel Mead^ 
in 1796. Selah Gridley and Captain Ira Woodford were early 
settlers, and their descendants are yet living here. It is a station 
on the Utica, Ithaca and Elmira Railroad, and contains a depot 
post office, hotel, school-house, steam and water-power saw-mill, 
and is about three and a half miles west of Candor village. 

Catatonk, a post village, is situated on Catatonk creek, near 
the south line of the town, and is a station on the Delaware, 
Lackawanna and Western Railroad, and contains a depot, post- 
office, church, blacksmith shop, two saw-mills, and tannery. The 
latter was built by Sackett & Forman, in 1852, purchased by G. 
Truman & Co., in 1864, and bought by E. S. Esty & Co., May 24, 
1875, and is now known as Catatonk Humboldt Tannery. 

The First National Bank of Candor^ was incorporated March 3, 
1864, with a cash capital of $50,000.00 and began business right 
after The officers were Norman L. Carpenter, president ; 
Jerome Thompson, vice-president ; and J. J. Bush, cashier. Mr. 
Carpenter died in the spring of 1865, and Mr. Booth, the present 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 195 



incumbent, succeeded him as president. In January, 1865, John 
W. McCarty succeeded Mr. Thompsom as vice-president, and 
the following month Mr. Bush resigned as cashier and was 
succeeded by Jerome Thompson. In 1868, the bank was robbed 
of a large amount of money, the details of which may be seen 
from the following entry in the bank's books under date of 
December 18, 1868, viz.: 

" Last night this bank was entered by burglars and robbed of 
about $13,000.00 in currency and $5,oooj30 in 5 per cent. U. S. 
bonds, besides about $1,200.00 in bonds belonging to other 
parties, left here for safe keeping. The above named property 
was in a burglar-proof safe, purchased of Herring & Co. in the 
year 1864. The burglars after tearing down the vault door laid 
the safe down on the bottom of the vault, door-si^e up, and 
sprung the sides with steel wedges sufficiently to admit powder, 
and blew the door open, abstracted the contents and made their 
escape." 

None of the property was ever recovered, and no trace of the 
burglars obtained. Ttje bank now has, however, a Herring's 
six-step, burglar-proof safe, with an additional burglar-proof chest 
inside. 

Candor Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons, was organized June 18, 
1856, under a disp6nsation from the Grand Lodge of the State of 
New York, by the following members, who were its first officers, 
viz.: Jonathan B. Hart, worshipful master; Samuel Barager, senior 
warden; Stephen Dyer, junior warden; James L. Thomas, sec- 
retary ; Solomon Mead, treasurer ; William Van Vleck, senior 
deacon; Walter Hunt, junior deacon; and Morris W. Holley, 
tyler. Only one of these survives, Jonathan B. Hart, who is in 
his eighty-seventh year, and although unable to participate in the 
active duties of tHe lod'gti, his interest in and his zeal for the in- 
stitution is as great as ever. Brother Hart was initiated in Fed- 
eral Lodge, No. 17, Watertown, Conn., in 1822, and is therefore 
■one of the oldest masons now living, having been a mason sixty- 
five years. The first seeker after masonic light under the dispen- 
sation was M. B. Weaver, who was initiated July 16, and made a 
maste;r mason September 13, 1856. At a meeting of the Grand 
Lodget held in June, 1857, a charter was granted, and at a meet- 
ing of the lodge held July 22, Candor Lodge, No. 411, Free and 
Accepted Masons was duly instituted, and the following named 
brethren installed as its officers, by, representatives of the grand 
officers of the Grand Lodge of the State of New York, viz.: Jon- 
athan B. Hart, worshipful master ; Morris W. Holley, senior 



196 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



warden ; Edward C. Coryell, junior warden ; James L. Thomas, 
secretary ; Jerome Thompson, treasurer ; John W. McCarty, sen- 
ior deacon ; M. B. Weaver, junior deacon ; and Solomon Meadr 
tyler. The first application for membership under the charter 
was H. Frank Booth, under date of August 5, 1857, who was 
raised to the sublime degree of master mason, September \6, 1857. 
Since the organization of the lodge to the present time, July i, 
1887, 199 members have been received by initiation, and Ihirty- 
six by affiliation, of whom forty-seven have withdrawn, thirty-nine 
have died, and fifty-eight have allowed themselves to be dropped 
from the roll. The following named iJrethren have served the 
lodge as worshipful master lor one or more terms, viz.: Jonathan 
B. Hart, four terms ; Jerome Thompson, three tergis ; Thomas 
B. Little, five terms; Thomas Eighmey, five terms; H. Frank 
Booth, seven terms ; George H. Hart, three terms ; W. L. Little^ 
one term ; and Charles F. Baylor, two terms. Lodge meetings 
from its organization until January 1, 1875, were held in a room 
located in the attic of what was then known as the Candor Cen- 
ter Hotel, which was fitted up and furnished by Brothers James 
L. Thomas and Jonathan B. Hart, whose zeal for the institution 
induced them to advance several hundred dollars for that pur- 
pose. In January, 1875, large and commodious rooms more cen- 
trally located were secured, in the Youngs block, and fitted up 
and furnished by the fraternity in modern style, and with all the 
paraphernalia usual to the order. Ten members of the lodge 
have been exalted to the Royal Arch degree, and became mem- 
bers of New Jerusalem Chapter, No. 47, of Royal Arch Masons, 
Owego, N. Y., one of whom, H. F. Booth, was elected and served 
as High Priest of the Chapter for one term. -Six have received 
the degree of Knighthbod,and became members of St. Augustine 
Commandary, No. 38, Ithaca, N. Y., and two, H. F. Booth and J. 
'F. Booth, are thirty-second degree members of Corning Consis- 
tory, Ancient and Accepted Scotish Rite, Corning, N. Y. The 
lodge also enjoys the distinction given it by the appointment of 
one of its members, H. F. Booth, to the position of District Dep- 
uty Grand Master of the Twentieth Masonic District, Candor 
lodge is in a prosperous condition, and is said to be one of the 
best posted and most correct working lodges in the state". 

Candor Woolen Mills, owned by Hon. Charles F. Barager, have 
already been mentioned. Mr. Barager began the manufacture 
of horse-blankets here in 1879. He employs fifty hands and turns 
out 50,000 blankets per year. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. ig/ 



The Humboldt tannery was built by Cyrenus Elmendorf and 
John J. Sackett, in ,1859, ^"d the business was conducted by them 
and by Mr. Elmendorf and others for several years. In 1865, the 
establishment passed into the hands of Messrs. E. S. Estey & Sons, 
who are the present proprietors. It is built on Catatonic creek, and 
has a capacity for tanning 40,000 sides, and employs twenty five 
men. It is under the supervision of J. W. Henderson, who has 
been in charge since October, 1871. The buildings were de- 
stroyed by fire in June, 1868, and immediately rebuilt by the 
Messrs. Estey. 

The Candor grist-mill^ Abram Beebe, prop., was built at an 
early date in the history of the town, by Jesse ajid Ogden Smith, 
brothers, who were prominent in the early enterprises of the 
town. It is operated by both steam and water-power, has four 
runs of stones, and the usual equipment of modern macliinery, 
grinding about 400 bushels of grain per week. The property is 
owned by the Foster Hixon estate, of Ithaca, and leased by Mr. 
Beebe. 

Lewis R. Hoff' s grist-mill^ on Main street, was purchased of 
the Sackett estate by his father, Lewis Hoff, in 1875. Lewis R. 
bacame part owner in December, i886, and has run it alone since 
the 1st of April. It has four runs of stones, is operated by both 
steam and water-powei", and grinds about 400 bushels of grain 
per week. 

S. E. Gridleys Planting Mill, on Mill street, was built by George 
H. Hart, about 1879, and has been owned by Mr. Gridley since 
March, 1885. The mill has a planer and matcher, jig-saw, rip- 
saw, lathe, moulder, etc., and is operated by both steam and 
water-power. 

White Brothers Chair Factory; located at Willseyville, was 
established in February, 1886, for the manufacture of White's 
patent bent chairs and folding tables. They have an extensive 
factory three stories high, eighty-five feet long, thirtv-five feet 
wide. It is operated by a sixty horse-power engine, and employs 
thirty hands, and manufactures 30,000 chairs and 10,000 tables 
annually. 

Barrett's Saw-Mill, located on West Owego creek, was built 

by Schoonover. It is operated by water-power, has lumber 

saw, lath saws, planer and matcher, turning lathes, shingle 
machine, etc. The mill employs four men and cuts 300,000 feet 
of lumber and a large quantity of lath, shingles, etc. annually. 
In 1880 Mr. Barrott built a grist-^mill to run in connection with 



igS TOWN OF CANDOR. 



-the saw-mill. It was two runs of stones, and grinds annuall)' 
10,000 bushels of grain. 

William A. and John F. Hubbard's Saw- Mill, on road 96, was 

xjriginally built by Jesse Smith, about 1818. It was rebuilt by 

John A. Chidsey, and in 1862 was purchased by the present pro- 
prietors, who in 1875 added a custom grist-mill. The mill cuts 

about 500,000 feet of lumber per year. 

George B. Pumpelly's Saw and Feed-Mill, near Gridleyville was 

iuilt by him in 1884, upon the site of one destroyed by fire. It 
is operated by steam-power, has a circular-saw, feed-mill and 

,<shingle machine, and turns out about 35,000 feet of lumber per 
week, and 60,000 shingles. 
H. and M. Van Deuser's Saw-Mill, located at Catatonk, is 

operated by water-power. It was built by R. H. Sackett, in 183 1, 
and in 1884 sold it to the present proprietors. It employs four 

iiands and cuts annually 1,000,000 feet of lumber. 

CHURCHES. 

Congregational Church of Candor. — Religious meetings were 
held in Candor, then a part of Owego, as early as 1796. These 
were continued, being held sometimes in the dwelling of Captain 
Abel Hart, sometimes in his " weave house," and sometimes in a 
harn belonging to Sylvester Woodford. At a meeting held in the 
latter place June 29, 1808, having invited Reverends Seth Willis- 
,ton and Jeremiah Osborn to assist in the organization, Ebenezer 
Sanford, Rhoda Sanford, Asa North, Laura North, Eli Bacon. 
Sarah Bacon, Job Judd, Ozias Woodford and Theda Woodford 
agreed to walk together as a church of Christ; thus forming the first 
-church organization in Candor. Following the tradition of the 
Pilgrim Fathers they organized it after the polity called Congre- 
gational, and having emigrated from Farmington, Conn., they 
incorporated the ecclesiastical society as " The Farmington 
Society." Rev. Daniel Loring was the first pastor. Previous 
-to 181 1 the church was designated as "The Second Congrega- 
tional Church of Spencer ;" as the town of Spencer was formed 
irom Owego in 1806, and the town of Candor from Spencer in 
181 1. From 1833 to 1850 the church was connected with the 
Presbytery of Geneva, then, by vote of the church, returning to 
-Congregational usage. In 1852 it became connected with the 
Susquehanna Conference of Congregational churches, called 
iSusquehanna Association since 1865. The church and society 



TOWN OF CANDOR. I99 



built a small house of worship in 1818, on ground adjacent to the 
store now owned by McCarty & Thompson. A second and more 
commodious house of worship was built in 1825 on the north side 
of the creek on the site of the house now owned by Spencer 
McCapes. In 1837 the first parsonage was built, west of the 
church, and is now owned by Lewis Griffin. The present brick 
church edifice was dedicated August 25, 1868, without debt or 
collection. The parsonage adjacent to the church was built 
in 1870. 

Si. Marks Protestant Episcopal Church of Candor was organized 
April 23, 1832, and Rev. Lucius Carter was the first rector. In 
January, 1835, the sbciety decided to purchase the lot they now 
occupy, and build a church, which they did, and w^e occupy- 
ing the building in December, 1837. The cost was $5,000.00. 
The building was generally repaired in 1868. 

Methodist Episcopal Church of Candor. — Rev. John Griffin, Geo. 
Densmore, and others of the circuit preachers, held services 
several years before the little gathering met in the house of Jared 
Smith, in 1827, to worship according to their doctrinal views, and 
to organize a Methodist Episcopal church. They were fifteen in 
number, — -Judge Samuel Barager and wife, Mr. and Mrs. James 
Smith, Mrs. Hannah Gilbert, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Hewett, Mr. 
and Mrs. George Hubbard, Mr. and Mrs. A. Hubbard, Mrs. 
Asaph Colburn, and Mr. and Mrs. Jared Smith forming a class, 
with Thomas Hewett as leader. The first public services were 
held at a school-house. The first meeting-house was erected on 
the site of the present church, at a cost of about $2,000.00. In 
1865 the. present church was built, costing about $10,000.00. 

Baptist Church of Candor. — A meeting of members of different 
Baptist churches met at the house of Hiram Allen, March 11, 
1852, to take into consideration the propriety of forming a Bap- 
tist church to be known as the Candor Village Baptist Church. 
A council was invited from the sister churches of Owego, Mont- 
rose, Tioga Center, Owego Creek, Willseyville, Spencer, West 
Danby, Caroline, and Barton. Delegates responded, to the invi- 
tation,'* and services were held in the school-house. Elder E. 
Kimball was called to the chairj and H. D. Pinney chosen clerk. 

The council, after hearing a statement from the committee of 
the Candor Baptist brethren, unanimously '■' Resolved, ^\\2X \h& 
council fellowship these brethren, and that public services be 
held at the Methodist chapel in the afternoon!" H iram Allen was 
elected deacon, and B. H. Mills, clerk. J. W. Emery was called 

14* 



200 TOWN OF .CANDOR. 



to be the first pastor. The house of worship was built in 1855^ 
at a cost of $5,000.00, and was generally repaired a few years ago. 

Baptist Church of West Owego Creek. — This church was the 
second Baptist church, as the Tioga and Barton Baptist Churcb 
was the first one. Fifteen persons met together on the first day 
of May, 1802, and entered into a covenant, which was signed by 
Louis Mead, Lovina Mead, Jasper Taylor, Catharine. Taylor, 
John Bunnell, Hannah Bunnell, George Lane, Sarah Lane, Peter 
Gorbet, Sarah Gorbet, Abram Everett, Deborah Everett, Samuel' 
Steward, Alvin Steward, and Elizabeth Jacobs. Services were 
held in dwelling-houses and school-houses for some years. Rev.. 
Levi Baldwin was the first pastor. A church edifice was built 
in 1844. 

Fairfield Baptist Church was built in 1871, its members with- 
drawing from the mother-church, on Owego Creek. 

Willseyville Baptist Church. — This church was organized in 
1839, with fifteen members, among whom were Jacob Willsey and 
wife, William and Martin Willsey, and Warren Willsey and wife. 
The first pastor was Elder E. Kimball. The meeting-house was- 
built in 1840. 

The Baptist Church of Pipe Creek was organized in 1842, with 
thirty-eight members. Their first pastor was Rev. Mark Dear- 
born. 

The Methodist Church at Anderson Hill was organized in i860, 
with twenty members. Rev. Thomas Burgess was first pastor. 

Union Church at East Candor was organized in 1858, with eighty 
members, composed mostly of Methodists, under the charge of 
the Caroline Church, Rev. Van Valkenburg, first pastor. 

Union Church at Catatonk was organized 1861. 

Methodist Episcopal Church of Pipe Creek was organized in 1 830, 
Rev. Gaylord Judd was the first pastor. 

A Free-Will Baptist Church was organized about i8i6. Their 
meetings were held in the school-house near Jared Smith's, and 
the one near Daniel Bacon's. Rev. John Gould was the first 
pastor, and about 1830 went West and joined the Mormons. This 
church was disorganized about 183 1. A Free-Will Baptist 
church was organized on West Owego creek about 1820, but 
soon disbanded. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 20I 



NEWARK VALLEY* lies in the eastern part of the county, 
and is bounded north by Berkshire, east by the county 
line, south by Owego and a small part of the county line, 
and west by Candor. 

The territory within this town has changed its name so often 
as to perplex the person who attempts to write its history. From 
i6 Feb., 1791, till 14 March, 1800, a part of the town of Union, 
in the county of Tioga, and bearing the local name of Brown's 
Settlement during that time. From 14 March, 1800, till 12 Feb., 
1808, a part of the town of Tioga, at first in the county of Tioga, 
but after 28 March, 1806, a part of the county of Broome, taking 
also, during that time, as its ecclesiastical name, "the Society 
of Western." From 12 Feb., 1808, till 12 April, 1843, a part of 
the town of Berkshire, remaining in Broome county till 21 
March, 1822, then restored to Tioga county. Separately organ- 
ized, as Westville, 12 April, 1823 ; becoming Newark by change 
of name, 24 March, 1824 ; and again Newark Valley, 17 April, 
1862 ; but retaining till 5 July, 1833, an ecclesiastical connection 
with Berkshire. 

Always a quiet farming community, remote from the bustle 
and enterprise of cities, with little chance for acquiring mental 
culture from great schools and libraries; with no great manu- 
facturing interests in her borders, her history has little of inter- 
est beyond the personal history of those who have dwelt in the 
town ; and that for the first third of the time since the settlement 
was made, is also a part of the history of other towns. 

Brown's Settlement was begun on the first day of April, 1791, 
by five men who left Stockbridge, Mass., on the twenty-third 
day of February, and spent thirty-seven days on the way, bring- 
ing their tools and provisions on two sleds, drawn by ox-teams. 
These pioneers were Isaac Brown and Abraham Brown, brothers, 
Daniel Ball, Elisha Wilson, and John Carpenter, who came as the 

hired man of the Browns. Two other men, Dean, and 

Norton, came in their company as far as Choconut, now Union, 
where they remained. 

The valley of the East Owego creek, with its natural beauty, 
and its advantages for the immediate support of human life, made 
it seem an earthlj' paradise in the estimation of the natives of the 
rocky hills of New England ; and as the venerable and honorable , 
David Williams, of Berkshire, feelingly said, on the ninetieth 

*Prepared by D. Williams Patterson. 



202 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

anniversary of his birth : "Every blow that has been struck by 
man in the valley has diminished its beauty, and every farm in 
the town, if restored to its primitive state, would be worth more 
to-day than with all the improvements that man has made here." 
Through the valley, from the south line of Newark Valley to the 
north line of Berkshire, the. timber was mostly hard wood, as 
beech, birch and maple, with white pines of great size scattered 
singly and in groups, with so little undergrowth that very little 
preparation was needed to enable a team and sled or cart to pass 
from one end to the other, with a moderate load. 

Pioneer Items. — The very first work done by Elisha Wilson, 
while his pioneer comrades went back to bring on the remainder 
of their goods, was to make a stock of maple sugar for their use 
during the summer; and though he had to cut his wood, make 
his troughs, tap the trees, and gather the sap by hand and boil it 
down without help, he had made one hundred and fifty pounds 
during their absence of eleven days. 

Every pioneer was a hunter, and deer were so plenty that no 
one felt a lack of meat, while the streams were so full of trout 
and other fish that enough could be taken for a meal in a few min- 
utes. Even shad were abundant in the Susquehanna river in 
May and June, till about 1830 (when the dams built by the State 
of Pennsylvania, at Shamokin and Nanticoke, barred their further 
passage and destroyed the fisheries), the only drawback to taking 
them being the clearness of the water, which enabled the fish to 
see and avoid the nets, unless the fishing were done in the night. 
Often a bear would be found and killed, so that the settlers could 
enjoy a change in their bill of fare. 

Almost every early settler understood and practiced the art of 
tanning deer-skins, from which they made their own gloves, mit- 
tens and leather breeches, and for more than sixty year the manu- 
facture was continued in a small way for export to other towns, 
and every woman became expert in the art of sewing leather 
goods. 

Wolves were the great enemy of the settlers, who had hard 
work to protect their sheep and lambs, and a lady who has but 
lately died, incidentaly mentioned the fact that she remembered 
when the wolves came into the barn-yard of Enoch Slosson, on. 
the present village green, and killed his lambs; and persons are yet 
living who remember seeing wolves brought into the valley by 
hunters who had shot them on the hills. 

Many of the early settlers here had been the neighbors and 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 203 



friends of the StockbHdge Indians, some of whom, as well as the 
Oneidas and Onondagas, occasionally visited the settlement, but 
no trouble ever arose between them, as the settlers knew the 
character and feelings of the Indians, and having in good faith 
bought and paid for their lands, and made with them a treatv of 
friendship; they knew that they could implicitly trust them, and 
confide in them, unless the whites should first break the compact ; 
and they never hesitated to admit the roving natives to the hos- 
pitalities of their log houses whenever they passed the settlement. 
One instance is remembered and told, where two Indians called 
at the house of Asa Bement, and asked for a meal which Mrs. 
Bement provided for them. One being satisfied, rose from the 
table saying: " Me tank you," while the other said : "•Me no tank 
yet," meaning that he had not yet finished his meal. 

Every house was a work shop, or domestic manufactory ; every 
chimney corner held a blue dye tub ; a delightful generator of 
ammonia, which did not prevent its use as a warm seat for one of 
the younger children, whose position was often admirably adapted 
for star-gazingthrough the top of the broad chimney. In this tub 
was dyed the wool or woolen yarn to be used for the winter stock- 
ings of the family, and for the filling of the linsey woolsey cloth, the 
favorite material for the every day gowns, petticoats, and aprons 
of the wives and daughters of that day, and the linen yarn to be 
used in making the striped or checked linen cloth for- handker- 
chiefs and aprons. Every girl was taught to spin wool and tow 
on the great weeel during the warm weather of summer; and 
liner on the little wheel, in the winter; and nearly every woman 
knew how to weave plain cloth; while the fine linen goods for 
tablecloths, and the woolen blankets or coverlets for beds, which 
were to be nicely figured, had to go into the hands of the pro- 
fessional weaver. Some very nice articles of this domestic spin- 
,ing and weaving are yet to be seen in the valley. 

The tow cloth was used for working-clothes for the men, as 
trousers, shirts, and frocks, and the linen for finer wear for men 
and women, and for summer sheets, as well as towels, strainers, 
etc. When the fulling mills were built so that every girl could 
have a nice pressed flannel dress every winter, she had little more 
to ask in the way of dress; and when the women could have the 
wool carded by machines, and avoid the task of carding by hand, 
it was considered a great help in the labor of the summer. 

When cotton cloth began to be brought in from the eastern 
factories, it was not known, as now, by its various grades or uses, 



204 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

as sheeting, shirting, etc., but by the name "factory," which dis- 
tinguished it from the domestic, or home-made cloth. The 
women were careful not to wear out their good gowns, with their 
long, narrow, gored skirts, when about their domestic work, but 
thought a good petticoat and short gown sufficient to meet all 
the requirements of fashion and good taste. 

- Among the household industries which flourished in Berkshire 
and Newark Valley for many years, was the braiding and sewing 
of grass bonnets, commonly called Leghorn bonnets. This began 
soon after the war of i8i2 ended, but whether it grew out of the 
economy which was then necessary, or was the result of the new 
meeting-house, which was dedicated 4 July, 1817, would be hard 
to decide. Some families became so noted for this work that 
young women came to them from other towns to learn the art. 
Miss Ruby Leach, of Corbettsville, in Conklin, N. Y., and Miss 
Roxania Trowbridge, daughter of Noble Trowbridge, of Great 
Bend, Pa., came about 1825 to the family of Joseph Belcher, on 
Berkshire Hill, and spent several months, during which Miss 
Leach made a quantity of braid of such unusual fineness and 
beauty that Miss Betsey Belcher made from it a bonnet for exhi- 
bition at a fair in Albany, and received the first premium, a set of 
silver spoons, and the bonnet was sold for sixty dollars. This in- 
dustry declined with the change of fashions, but as late as 1850, 
many mens' fine hats were made in the two towns. 

Early Settlers. — ^Elisha Wilson, eldest child of Elijah and Mary 
(Curtis) Wilson, was born at Stockbridge, Mass., 13 Aug., 1767, 
went over the Boston Purchase with the surveying party in 1790, 
selected lot 184 for his future home, and bought it of Elisha Blin, 
on his return to Mass. Starting again from Stockbridge, 23 Feb., 
1791. with several companions, they reached their destination i 
April, 1791, and he spent the summer in preparing his land for 
culture, and raising a crop of corn and vegetables. He built a 
log house, with a single roof of bark, near the bank of the creek, 
west of the road and nearly opposite the site of his home in after 
years, where Levi B. Hammond now lives ; and this house, which 
some years later had a better roof, was standing, and sometimes 
occupied as a dwelling till 1830. After spending two winters at his 
old home in Stockbridge, this became his permanent home. He 
married 9 Dec, 1799, with Electa Slosson, who died 19 Nov., 1862, 
aged more than ninety years. He died 11 Nov., 1857, aged over 
ninety years. Their children were : 

I. Elijah, b 11 Oct., 1800, died at Detroit, Mich. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 205 

II. Mary, b 17 Jan., 1802; d 21 April, 1819. 

III. Susan Maria, b 16 July, 1807; m with Chester Leonard, 
■who died 25 Nov., 1841. 

IV. Charles Frederick, b 10 Sept., 1810; m 22 Sept., 1833," with 
Elnora Woodford, daughter of Giles and Eunice (Wilcox) Wood- 
ford, of Burlington, Conn., where she was born 13 June, 1815. 
He died at Prescott, Wis., 17 Feb., 1881, in his 71st year, without 
children, and she returned to Newark Valley, where she still 
resides. 

Abraham Brown, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 28 June, 1768, was 
a farmer and surveyor. He visited the Boston Purchase in 1790, 
with a party of surveyors, and had probably been with them as 
an assistant in the previous year of their labor, and it is said that 
on one occasion he was detached from the party to verify some 
■work, lost his way, and was out four days before he found his 
comrades. He came in the pioneer party, in 1791, and began his 
settlement on lot 257, which had fallen to his mother, in the divi- 
sion, about on the same spot where the Congregational meeting- 
house was built a few years later, and where John Harmon, after 
buying the south half of the lot, built his brick house, which still 
stands there. After his mother came to Brown's Settlement he 
lived with her, where Rodney Ball now lives, on the north 
half of the lot, and died there, 19 September, 1828, unmarried. 

John Carpenter, born at Stockbridge, Mass., 24 Oct., 1772, 
■eldest child of Abner and Lydia (Brown) Carpenter, was 
employed as an assistant to Isaac and Abraham Brown, and was 
one of the pioneers in Brown's Settlement, in 1791. He was 
probably here every year till his marriage, at Stockbridge, about 
the first of January, 1797. He had bought land on lot 302, in 
Berkshire (where his brother Daniel Carpenter afterward lived) 
and intended to settle upon it. Six weeks after his marriage he 
started again for Brown's Settlement to prepare a home for his 
wife, and the first news which she had from him was of his death 
and burial. He was the second adult person who died in the 
colony, ^d the first in the. limits of Newark Valley. He was 
boardiftg with Ezbon Slosson's family in the log house where the 
lecture room of the Congregational church now stands, and was 
.apparently, in as good health as ever, when he heard of the death 
of Isaac Brown, 10 April, 1797, and said: " Now I will go and 
take Brown's farm to work," but three days later, 13 April, 1797, 
he died, and was ready to join his neighbor Brown in the new 
cemetery. 



206 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Ezbon Slosson, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 28 Jan., 1769, (son of 
Enoch Slosson) married there 26 Aug., 1790, with Electa 
Williams, daughter of Azariab and Beulah (Brown) Williams of 
Stockbridge, where she was born 2o.Sept., 1772. He came ta 
Brown's Settlement early in 1792, with the returning pioneers, 
and began his new home on lot 138, building a cabin ot logs with 
a bark roof, about where the mill-house stands, in which Philander 
M. Moses now lives. In Feb. 1793, he again left Stockbridge, 
bringing with him his wife and daughter, and his parents with 
some of the younger members of their family, arriving at their 
new home 4 March, 1793. In the fall of 1795, a heavy storm 
raised the water so as to float the puncheon floor of their house, 
and the bark roof slid off, compelling them to go in the night, 
through the water to his father's log house, where they dwelt 
till he could build a new one on the spot where the lecture-room 
of the Congregational church now stands. In 1806 he built the 
first framed house in Newark Valley, which, as the south end of 
the old hotel, was torn down in April 1887. Later, he built a 
house on the spot where Mrs. John Davidge now lives. He died 
2 June, 1838. She died at the house of Otis Lincoln, 12 Feb., 
1853. Those who followed them to the settlement were made 
welcome to a part of their log house, while getting their own 
ready for use, and it sometimes sheltered two families at once, 
besides their own. After building this framed house he kept an 
inn, a small store, and also built a distillery about where Mr, 
Caldwell now lives. Their children were : 

I. Caroline, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 23 Feb., 1791 ; married 
in 1812, with Ezekiel Rich. 

II. Sarah, b 2 Aug., 1796; m with Otis Lincoln. 

III. WiUiam, b 3 July, 1800; m 1 July, 1824, with Maria 
Benjamin, and two of their children, George W. Slosson, and 
Mrs. Phebe Elizabeth Todd still live in Newark Valley. 

IV. Franklin, b 20 Feb., 1805; m 19 Jan., 1832, with Nancy- 
Rich, and settled in Owego. 

V. Semantha, b 20 Sept., 1808 ; m with Simeon Rich Griffin, 
Enoch Slosson, b at Wilton, Conn., 13 Aug., 1733, son of Na- 
thaniel and Margaret (Belden) Slosson, married at Sharon, Conn., 
9 Aug., 1757, with Sarah St. John, daughter of Mark and Han- 
nah St. John, of Wilton, where she was born in 1738. They set- 
tled at Kent, Conn., where they joined the church ; she, 4 June^. 
1759. by letter from Sharon; he, by profession, 29 March, 1761 ; 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 207 

but soon moved to Stockbridge, Mass., where they joined the 
church, 7 Nov., 1762, by letter from Kent. 

In February, 1793, they left Stockbridge with part of their 
children, in company with their son, Ezbon Slossoh, and his fam- 
ily, and came to Brown's settlement, arriving- 4 March, 1793, and 
dwelt in the house with their son till 1794, then built a log house 
where Dr. R. B. Root afterward lived and died. She and her 
daughter in-law saw no other woman till September, when Dr, 
Tinkham's wife came from Owego, on horseback, to visit them. 
She was disrnissed from the church at Stockbridge, 2 Oct., 1803, 
and became a member of the new church, 20 Nov., 1803, the first 
Sunday after. its organization, her name standing first on the list 
of admissions. She died 10 March, 1819, in her 8ist y^ar. There 
is no record of his admission to the chtirch of Newark Valley, 
but tradition says that he became a member in 1820. He died 
21 Feb., 1827, in his 94th year. Many years of his life were 
clouded by mental derangement. Their children were: 

I. Mabel, bat Kent, Conn., 5 Oct., 1758; married with Abra- 
ham W. Johnson. 

II. Lucinda, b at Kent, Conn., 8 Jan.. 1761 ; m 26 Nov., 1778,. 
at Stockbridge, Mass., with Abijah Williams, son of Joshua Will- 
iams. She died at Stockbridge about June, 1782, leaving an only 
child, Enoch Slosson Williams, who was born at Stockbridge, 13. 
Dec, 1 781, who was brought up by his grandparents, and came 
with them to Brown's settlement in 1793. 

III. Sarah, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 4 March, 1764 ; m there 4 
April, 1782, with William Holley, and died there about 1783,. 
without children. 

IV. Electa, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 7 Sept., 1766; died 
young. 

V. Ezbon, b 28 Jan., 1769; see under 1791. 

VI. Electa, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 3 March, 1772 ; came ta 
Brown's Settlement in 1794, and married with Elisha Wilson, the 
pioneer settler. 

VII. Jerusha, b at Stockbridge, Mass., in Nov., 1774; came to 
Brown's Settlement iii 1794, and m with Samuel Ball. 

VIII. Ruth, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 24 Aug., 1777; came to 
Brown's Settlement in 1794, and married with Joel Farnham. 

IX. Enos, b at Stockbridge. Mass., 24 May, 1780, came ta 
Brown's Settlement with his parents in 1793; m 8 Aug., 1803, 
with Rebecca Culver, and moved, about 1816, to Lawrence- 
ville, Penn. 



208 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Asa Bement, b at Stockbridge, Mass.,io June, 1764, son of Asa 
and Ruth (Neal) Bement, was a blacksmith and farmer. He mar- 
ried 19 Jan., 1786. with Abigail Brown, daughter of Samuel and 
Abigail (Burr) Brown, of Stockbridge, where she was born 31 
July, 1762. He was one of the sixty associates who bought the 
ten townships, and in the grand division he drew lot 177. In the 
summer of 1792 he began to fit it up for a home, by clearing 
some land, building a log house, and sowing some wheat. John 
Brown, of Stockbridge, charged him, 5 Sept., 1792, with " six 
bushels of seed wheat delivered at Union, at 4s. 6d. — £1. 7s." 
This wheat, without doubt, was part of the first crop raised in 
the valley by Brown's brothers, Isaac and Abraham, yet it was 
sold to him at the very low price of seventy-five cents a bushel, 
or just what it was then worth in Stockbridge. "Having sown 
his wheat, he went back to Stockbridge to spend the winter with 
his family. He bought boards for a sled-box at Stockbridge, 12 
Feb., 1793, and started a day or two later, in company with Enoch 
and Ezbon Slosson, and their families, to come again to the land 
of promise, and arrived 4 March, 1793. John Brown again 
charged, him with " Sundries paid by Isaac at Owego, viz.: 

" 1793, March 13. To one bushel of ears of corn, is. od. 

To two bushels & ^ of ears of corn, 2s. 6d. 

April 13. To eight bushels of wheat, a 4s. 6d. 36s. od. 

May 10. To five bushels of o^ts, 9s. 4^d. 

To three bushels of potatoes, 4s. 6d. 

To keeping a swine ten weeks, 3s. 9d. 



£2. 17s. i^d. 

At the end of this second summer he returned to Stockbridge, 
feeling that his new home was ready for his family, so after 
spending most of the winter enjoying the privileges of settled 
society, he bought of John Brown another lot of " boards for a 
Sleigh box, 2s.," 4 Feb., 1794. He soon started with his wife and 
four children for this sylvan paradise. The place on which he 
settled had natural beauties and advantages equal to any in the 
valley, and two of its beautiful maple groves yet grace the land- 
scape. His wife died 14 Nov., 1814. He married (2d), 18 Oct., 
1815, with Lucy Bishop, widow of Noah Lyman, and daughter of 
Judge Nathaniel and Ruth (Bartlett) Bishop, of Richmond, Mass., 
previously of Guilford, Conn., where she was born4 Sept., 1774. 
He died 21 April, 1847. She died 19 July, 1852. He had by his 
iirst wife, eight children, and by the second, one. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 209 



I. Parthenia, b at Stockbridge, 9 Feb,, 1787, m with Abraham 
Hotchkin. 

II. Betsey, b at Stockbridge,' 28 Nov., 1788, m with Jonathan 
Belcher. 

III. Frances, b at Stockbridge, 18 Dec, 1790, ra with Zina 
Bushnell. 

IV. Abigail, b at Stockbridge, 18 June, 1793, m with Henry S. 
Oranger. 

V. William Brown, b at Newark Valley, 29 May, 1796, a very 
enterprising, capable man, long a deacon of the church at New- 
ark Valley, where he died 21 March, 1870. 

VI. Emily, b 23 Sept., 1798, m with Deodatus Royce. 

VII. Mary, b 8 March, 1801, m with George Williams. 

VIII. Frederick Burr, b 14 Nov., 1804, m with Mary Ann 
Armstrong, and m (2d) with Mary Elizabeth Williams. 

IX. Jane, b 14 Aug., 1816, m with Major Frederick Theodore 
Wells, and still lives in Newark Valley. 

Peter Wilson, (a brother of Elisha Wilson) was born at Stock- 
bridge, Mass., 29 Nov., 1770 ; came to Brown's Settlement in the 
spring of 1793, and made his home on lot 217, west of the creek 
where Daniel Chamberlain now lives. He married 28 Feb., 1802, 
Lydia Saltmarsh, daughter of William and Elizabeth (Patterson) 
Saltmarsh, formerly of Watertown, afterwards of Richmond, 
Mass., where she was born 26 Nov., 1775. At the first town 
meeting of Berkshire, i March 1808, he was elected collector 
and poundmaster. He and his wife joined the church 7 Jan. 1816, 
he receiving baptism the same day ; and he was elected one of its 
deacons, 16 Oct., 1817, serving till his death, 23 April, 1845, " uni- 
versally respected and beloved, and his death as generally and 
deeply lamented." She died 9 March 1846. Their children were : 

I. Phebe b 3 Feb., 1803, tn with Joseph Westfall, and had three 
children, of whom the eldest, Dea. Joseph Frederick Westfall 
now lives on her part of her father's homestead. 

II. Eliza Abby, b 5 Oct., 1805 ; d 3 March 1807. 

III. Eliza Ab.by, b 22 Oct., 1807 ; m with Derick Ralyea. 

IV. ■ Laura, b. 11 May, 1810. 

V. William, b 30 July, 1812; ra with Clarissa Cook Corsaw, 
and both are dead,. 

VI. Mary Elizabeth b 31 March, 18 16; died 24 April 1839. 
Abraham W. Johnson, a laborer said to have come from Cheshire, 

Mass., married with Mabel Slosson, and came to Brown's Settle- 
ment in 1794. His name first appeared on the account book of 



2IO , TOWN. OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

John Brown, Esq., 3 April 1798, and it was on the highway tax- 
list for that year. He probably worked for Mr. Brown, who 
charged him with a cow. at sixteen dollars, 13 Nov., 1798; and 
" Feb. 26, 1799, to the use of a house 15 months, i6s." They dwelt 
at one time on the bank of Spring brook, not far from the head of 
Waring's trout pond, and down to a late date, their old tansy bed 
could still be found there. At one time they owned a house and 
some land, but her mental infirmity, a heritage from her father, 
increased, perhaps by the opium habit, and his unfortunate appe- 
tite confirmed by many years of labor in a distillery, brought 
them to poverty, and their last home in Newark Valley was in 
a log house built by the poor-master for them, in the hollow 
north of the road, between the house of Hiram Griffing, and the 
brook that comes down from Glen Echo. Later one or both of 
them were taken to the poor-house, and probably died there, but 
the dates have hot been ascertained. They had two children 
Lyman Johnson and Luciuda Johnson. 

Levi Bailey, a hatter, was here in 1795 ; went back to Stock- 
bridge, Mass., where, as of Union, N. Y., he married 19 Nov., 
1795, with Pamelia Brown, daughter of Isaac and Elizabeth (War- 
ren) Brown, of Stockbridge. He brought his wife to Brown's 
Settlement early in 1796, and in the winter of 1796-97 he lived in 
the log house which stood on the west side of the way, between 
Bement & Wilson's mill house and Wilson creek, and just below 
where Beriah Wells afterward built his house and chair factory. 
Possibly he dwelt, in 1798, near the home of John Brown, Esq., 
and it is said that he once lived on the West Owego creek. Af- 
terward he owned and lived on the place now occupied by Egbert 
Bement, living at one time, according to Judge Williams, on the 
east side of Whig street. He was one of the constituent mem- 
bers of the church, 17 Nov., 1803. She joined it in August, 1804, 
having been dismissed from the church at Stockbridge, 5 June, 
1803, " to the church about to be formed at Tioga." They were 
dismissed, in Feb., 1816, and moved to Greene, Trumbull Co., 
Ohio. Their children were : 

L Isaac Brown. II. Lewis. III. Eliza, m in Ohio. 

IV. Pamelia, m in Ohio. V. Edwin, bap. in Aug., 1804. 

VI. , an infant, d between 14 May and 29 June, 1807 ; name 

not recorded. 

VII. Grin Martin, b 24 Sept., 1808; bap. 27 Nov., 1808. 

VIII. Abby, b 18 June, 1810. 

Beulah Brown, widow, one of the sixty associates in the pur- 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 211 

chase of the ten townships, came to Brown's Settlement, in Feb- 
ruary, 1796, with her sons, John, Joseph and Lemuel, and settled 
•on lot 257, where Rodney Ball now hves. She was born at 
Watertown, Mass., 20 Jan., 1741 or 1742, daughter of Joseph and 
Lydia (Marean) Patterson, and married about 1764, with her 
•cousin, Abraham Brown, who was born at Watertown, in 1740, 
youngest child of Dea. Samuel and Mercy (Patterson) Brown, 
afterward of Stockbridge. He served in the early part of the 
revolutionary war as a captain of militia, and died 8 Jan., 1777, of 
small-pox, which was communicated to him by a letter. She was 
dismissed from the church at Stockbridge, 5 June, 1803, and be- 
came one of the constituent members of the first church in Tioga, 
{now Newark Valley) 17 Nov., 1803, her name being fifth on the 
list. She was a woman of good mental powers, with a kind heart 
and benevolent disposition. She died 6 July, 1820, and a trust- 
worthy tradition says that in the last year of her life she had made 
eighty cheeses and taken care of them with her own hands. Her 
children were : 

I. John, b at Stockbridge, 18 July, 1765 ; settled in Berkshire. 

II. Isaac, b at Stockbridge, 25 Oct., 1766; settled in Berkshire. 

III. Abraham, b at Stockbridge, 28 June, 1768; settled in New- 
ark Valley. 

IV. Joseph, b at Stockbridge, 1.6 March, 1771 ; settled in New- 
ark Valley. 

V. Lemuel., b at Stockbridge, i Feb., 1775 ; settled in Owego. 
Joseph Brown came to Brown's Settlement with his mother, 

Beulah Brown, in February, 1796. He married early in 1797, with 
Experience Stafford, who was born in Vermont. 8 Feb., 1778, 
daughter of Abel and Rebecca (Short) Stafford, afterward of the 
town of Owego, now Tioga, N. Y. His name is not on the high- 
way tax-list of 1798, which seems to indicate that he was not then 
a separate householder. He owned the north half of lot 98, and 
built his house on the gravelly knoll, just north of Hope Ceme- 
tery, and between that and the residence of David W. Noble. His 
blacksmith shop was on the opposite side of the way, in the cor- 
ner of tihe old orchard, a few feet south of WiUiam T. Noble's 
old store. He died 20 Jan., 1808, and was buried in the Brown 
cenfetery, at Berkshire. His widow married with Daniel Chur- 
chill, and died 26 June, 1864, though her gravestone erronepusly 
says 6 June. Their children were : 

I. Laurinda, b 23 Oct., 1797; m with Nathan Slosson. 

II. Rebecca Short, b 4 April, 1799; m with Frederick Belcher. 



212 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

III. Beulah Patterson, b 22 Jan., 1801; m with Lester H. Fuller. 

IV. Experience, b 26 Sept., 1803; m with Ephraim Munson 
Clark. 

V. Joseph Patterson, b 15 June, 1805; m with Lura Matilda Rus- 
sell, and his descendants live at Little Rock, Ark. 

VI. Amos Patterson, b8 April, 1808; died on his father's home- 
stead, 10 Sept., 1865, and his widow and daughter still live in 
Newark Valley. 

William Solomon Lawrence, b at Canaan, Conn., about 1757, 
son of Jonas and Tryphena (Lawrence) Lawrence, married 12 
Oct., 1780, with Esther Button, and they dwelt in. Canaan till 
1796, and in the early part of that year came to Brown's Settle- 
ment, and settled in a log house on the east side of the way, on 
the south half of lot 63, where Hart Newell built the framed 
house that was burned in November, 1856, while owned by Ly- 
man Barber, whose daughter, Mrs. W. T. Loring, has more re- 
cently occupied the same spot with her new dwelling. In the 
latter part of the summer of 1797, he went to buy wheat at She- 
shequin, Penn., and on his way home, at Tioga Center, his horses, 
frightened by the violent barking of a dog, became unmanageable, 
overturned the wagon and threw him out, crushing his head 
against some heavy drags of wood that had been drawn together 
by the roadside, and killed him at once. His widow married 2a 
Sept., 1801, with Abel Stafford, and afterward moved to Canada, 
where she drowned herself in a trough of water. Their chil- 
dren, all born in Canaan, were : 

I. Experience, b 28 July, 1781; m with Joel Gaylord. 

II. Jonas, b 25 Nov., 1782, d in 1785. 

III. Rebecca, m with David Hammond. 

IV. Erastus, d unmarried at Natchez, Miss. 

V. Cyrus, m with Olive Dewey. 

VI. Sophia Lawrence, m wilh Russell Fowler. 
VI [. Charlotte, m with John P. House. 

VIII. Betsey, m with Austin Fowler. 

IX. Orange, b 23 Feb., 1796; m with Sarah House, and settled 
at Orangevilie, Canada West (now Ontario), which was named 
for him. 

Three of these children, Cyrus, Betsey and Orange, took their 
own lives. 

Abel Lawrence, b at Canaan, Conn., 22 Sept., 1763 ; son of 
Jonas and Tryphena (Lawrence) Lawrence ; married 6 Oct., 
1783, with Abigail Rockwell. He married (2d) in 1790, with 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 21 3 

Lucina Granger, daughter of Joel Granger, who was born 19 
:Dec., 1770. They cahne to Brown's Settlement in April, 1796, 
soon after his brother, William Solomon Lawrence, and settled 
on the east side of the way, on lot 58, next north of that piece 
on which John Freeman settled. The two pieces had been owned 
together, and in the division it is said that an advantage of five 
acres had been given to that which Freeman had, because of the 
broken land along the little stream which came down through it. 
Their log house sheltered them here till the winter or spring of 
1822, when they moved into the framed house, still standing 
(between that of Lucius W. Spaulding and that of William Floyd 
Monell), which was raised 12 Oct., 1821. He died 26 July, 1835. 
She died 8 Feb., 1837. His children were (by first wiJe): 

I. Jonas, b at Canaan, Conn., died young. 

n. Trvphena, b at Canaan, Conn., died young. 

III. Abigail, b at Canaan, Conn. 

(By second wife). 

IV. Tryphena, b at Canaan, Conn., 22 April, 1793 ; died 31 
July, 1871, unmarried. 

V. Jonas, b at Canaan, Conn., 14 Sept., 1794; married with 
Ann Thomas. 

VI. and VII. Twins, b in the spring of 1796, soon after the 
family came to Brown's Settlement ; died very young. 

VIII. William Solomon, b 19 Oct., 1797. 

IX. Bersheba Lucina, b 16 Jan., 1800; married with Anson 
Miner Howard. She d 3 June, 1887. 

X. Joel Granger, b 2 Jan., 1801. 

XI. Charlotte, b 26 Dec, 1804; married with Pomeroy Gors- 
line. 

XII. Susan, b 26 Aug., 1806; married with James L. Gorsline, 

XIII. Wealthy L.,"b 30 Sept., 1808; married with Elisha For- 
syth, of Owego. 

XIV. Abigail Salome, b 7 Feb., 1810; died at Mrs. Forsyth's, 
in Owego, Feb., 1876. 

Solomon Williams, b at Stockbridge Mass., 21 or 23 July. 1763, 
son of Azariah and Beulah (Brown) Williams; married there, 24 
Nov., 1794, with Hephzibah Hart, who was born 28 March, 1772, 
youngest daughter of Job and Eunice (Beckley) Hart. They 
came to Brown's Settlement in February, 1796, and lived in the 
log house with his brother-in-law, Ezbon Slosson, till their own 
plank house was ready for use. This was built on the Knoll, or 
hillside, directly east of the first bark-covered cabin. A few 



214 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY., 

jears later he built a house on Whig street, (where Fred W. 
Richardson now lives) in which they died'; she, 17 Aug., 1831 : 
he, 10 or 12 June, 1838. They both joined the church, 3 April, 
183 1, and he was then baptized. Their children were. 

I. Ehsha Willianas, b in 1798 ; died when eight years old. 

II. George, b 2 May, 1801 ; a printer, author, bookseller, and 
later, a lumber merchant; m with Mary Bement ; dwelt in 
Hamilton, N. Y., till 1839, ^^ Owego, till May 1844, then at Bel- 
videre. 111., where he d 9 Jan., 1856. 

III. James, b 23 June, 1803; moved to Belvidere, 111., in 1844; 
m in June 1852, with Emily Royce, and died in Belvidere. 

IV. Nancy, b 11 April, 1807; died at Hamilton, N. Y., 13 Feb., 
1845, unmarried. 

V. Sabrina, b 3 Sept., 1809. 

VI. WiUiam Hart, 'b 10 or 11 Dec, 181 1; a jeweler; resides 
now in Albany, N. Y, 

VII. Robert, b 8 Oct., 1813 : m 9 May 1844, with Jane Elizabeth 
Royce, and settled at Belvidere, 111. 

VIII. Sarah, b 28 Feb., 1816; m with Warren Pierce. 

IX. Mary EHzabeth, b 2 Dec, 1818; m with Frederick B. 
Bement. 

Joseph Hosford, son of Joseph, was a soldier in the war of the 
revolution. The date and place of his birth have not been found. 
He married at Stockbridge, Mass., i Aug., 1793, with Mary 
Williams, (often called Polly) daughter of Azariah and Beulah 
(Brown) Williams, and grand-daughter of Dea. Samuel and Mercy 
(Patterson) Brown, of Stockbridge, where she was born about 
1772, baptized 1 Aug., 1773, and joined the church in 1783. They 
came to Brown's Settlement in the spring of 1796, arriving before 
Solomon Williams had his house ready for use, and for some 
weeks they also lived in the log house with Ezbon Slosson's family 
while he was building one for himself. Probably the name 
recorded "Joseph Hufford," in the highway tax list of 1798, for 
three days of work, was intended for his name. The clerk may 
have mistaken the long s, then in common use for an f. The 
Hon. Amos Patterson of Union, who then owned lot 103, gave 
him twenty-two acres of the southwest cornei- of the lot, lying 
west of the creek, as a token of regard for his fellow-soldier. On 
this land he settled. His log house stood wtest of Spring brook, 
and a few rods southwest of the wheel factory, or turning shop, 
successively occupied by Enoch S. Williams, Jesse Truesdell^, 
Samuel Moses, and at present bv Aaron C. Stevens. The strep.t 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 215 



which lies about twenty rods south of his little farm was named 
Hosford street, as a memorial of him. This land he sold to Enoch 
S. Williams. His wife was dismissed with several others, 5 June, 
1803, from the church at Stockbridge, to that about to be formed 
at Tioga, now Newark Valley, which she joined 20 Nov., 1803 
the first Sunday after its organization, her name being the eighth 
on the list of members; She was dismissed in 1809, remained 
here till after the middle of Feb. iSto, and then with her husband 
and children went to Hunts Hollow, Livingston County, N. Y., 
where she died in 1841. He died there in 1843, of apoplexy. 
There children were : 

I. Electa, bap at Stockbridge, Mass., 18 Oct., 1795. 

II. Charles, bap at Newark Valley, 14 Feb., 1810. 

HI. Eunice Williams, bap at Newark Valley, 14 Feb., 1810, 
died at Bloomfield, N. Y.. 

IV. Mary, bap at Newark Valley, 14 Feb., 1810; m with 

Parker, and settled in Hebron, 111. 

V. Abigail, bap at Newark Valley, 14 Feb.. 18 10. 

VI. , an infant, died at Newark Valley, 14 May, 1807. 

VII. Franklin, b at Newark Valley, 22 Feb., 1809, bap there 
14 Feb., 1810; dwelt at Hunts Hollow, N. Y., on his father's 
homestead. 

Joseph Hosford, aged 84 years, died in Newark Valley, i May, 
1806. He was the father of the preceding, and probably lived 
with him. There is no evidence that he had a separate house- 
hold, after he came here, nor is the time of his coming known. 

Michael Jenks was taxed in 1798 to work four and a half days on 
the highway. He came to the Boston Purchase, 12 Aug., 1796, in 
company with Jonas Muzzy and two others from Spencer, Mass., 
and settled on lot 261, now the N. W. corner lot in the town of 
Newark Valley. Perhaps Laban Jenks and Elisha Jenks men- 
tioned below were those two companions. The postoffice and 
hamlet of Jenksville were named for him. He was born 16 Aug.,- 
1773, eldest son of Isaac and Ruth Jenks, of Spencer, Mass., and 
married there 2 March, 1797, with Sarah Hunt, who was born in 
Spencer, Mass., 31 Oct., 1774, daughter of Aaron and Lavina Hunt, 
of Spencer, and previous to 1770, of Paxton, Mass. The father 
of Mr. Jenks was one of the sixty associates in the, purchase of 
the ten townships. 

In connection with the name of Michael Jenks Judge Avery 
gave the names of Laban Jenks, Elisha Jenks, Captain Scott, and 
Thomas Baird, as " early pioneers, well known and much re- 

15* 



2l6 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

spected," but their names do not appear in the early tax list. 
Michael Jenks built the first saw-mill at Jenksville, and a ievr 
years later went down the Susquehanna river, sold his lumber, 
received his pay for it, and since that day no tidings of him have 
ever reached his family and friends. They had two sons: 

I. Otis, b at Jenksville, in the latter part of the year 1797 ; lived! 
to be over fifty years old, and died unmarried. 

II. Michael. 

Jonas Muzzy, b at Spencer, Mass., 2 April, 1775, at noon, son.' 
of Jonas and Sarah (Draper) Muzzy, came to the Boston Purchase 
12 Aug., 1796; stopping first on the West Owego creek, with his 
old acquaintance, Michael Jenks. Afterwards he came over to- 
Brown's Settlement and worked for Elisha Wilson, as a farm hand 
and miller. As he was not a householder, nor an owner of land, 
his name does not appear in the highway tax-list of 1798. He 
married 27 Aug., 1801, with Thersey Moore, daughter of Henry 
and Lucy (Churchill) Moore, and began housekeeping the next 
winter on a farm of fifty-five acres on the south part of lot 58,. 
which he bought of John Freeman, 5 Dec, 1801, for four hundred 
dollars. From the spring of 1806 till the spring of 1810, they 
dwelt in a small house just north of her father's house, then re- 
turned to his farm, which they finally left 10 Sept., 1812. He 
then dwelt for some years on the place with her father, after which 
he bought a farm on the north part of lot 218, on which he lived 
till the spring of 1824. He then lived in Wilson's mill-house, and 
attended the grist-mill till April, 1826, when he moved again to 
the farm on which her father had died, remaining there till 20- 
April, 1830, when he settled on the farm on Muzzy brook, on the 
south half of lot 183, where they died, she, 31 Aug., 1861 ; he, 17 
Dec, 1864. He never forgot the fact that he was born at noon,, 
for his father required his service till noon of the day on which 
he attained his majority ; and he often told of that last half day,, 
spent in building rail fence in a snow storm, without mittens. 
Their children were : 

I. Lucy, b 17 July, 1802; m with Frederick Bean. 

II. Sarah, b 13 May, 1804; m with Giles Slosson. 

III. Henry Moore, b 20 Dec, 1805 ; m 25 Feb., 1829, with Mary- 
Ann Farrand, who died 14 May, 1843. He died 22 Sept., 1886. 

IV. Gilbert, b 11 or 12 May, 1808. 

v. Sabrina Leonard, b 2 Jan., 1810; m with Henry B. Slosson, 
and died 6 Jan., 1867. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 217 

VI. Mary Edwards, b 30 July, 1812; married with Marshal 
Hotchkin, and still lives in Newark Valley. 

VII. William Henry, b 28 Feb., 1814. 

VIII. Alvah, died 18 March, 1816, aged four weeks. 

IX. John, b 20 May, 1817; died 5 Dec, 1817. 

X. Emily, b 5 Nov., 1818; resides in Newark Valley. 

XI. Charles, b 25 Nov., 1820; m 30 Dec, i860, with Helen T. 
North, and now lives on the homestead of his father. Two other 
children died when a few days old. 

Uriah Simons, (or Simonds as the name was sometimes writ- 
ten), was the son of Francis and Zipporah (Cleveland) Simons, 
of Brooklyn, Conn., where he was b 2 April, 1768, according to 
his family record. He married i Aug., 1793, with 0]^ve Tucker, 
daughter of John and Thankful (Eggleston) Tucker, of Stock- 
bridge, Mass., where she was born 10 Feb., 1770. They dwelt 
in Stockbridge till the early months of 1797, then came to 
Brown's Settlement and dwelt, for a few years, on the west bank 
of the creek, on lot 224 (now called the Branch lot), then 
moved to lot 218, on the Muzzy brook, (now owned by Riley 
Tappan), where they died ; he 26 Sept., 1844 ; she, 26 Jan., i860. 
Their children were : 

I. Ebenezer Francis, b 21 March, 1794, settled in Cortlandville, 
N. Y. 

II. John Tucker, b 15 Jan., 1796; d 22 Sept., 1796. 

III. Thankful Eggleston, b 30 Sept., 1797; went to Stock- 
bridge and dwelt with her grandparents. 

IV. Joseph, b 25 June, 1799 ; d 13 Jan., 1800.' 

V. Emeline, b 11 Oct., i8oo; d 6 Oct., 1847, unmarried. 

VI. Catharine Huff, b 10 April, 1802; m with Alfred Belcher 
Prentice. 

VII. Frederick, b 16 Sept., 1804; a genial, pleasant, happy 
man ; captain of a' military company ; d 23 Jan., 1863, unmarried. 

VIII. Lucy Newell, b 20 Oct., 1806; d 2 April, 1839, unmar- 
ried. 

IX. Mary, b 16 Jan., 1808 ; d 19 Oct., 1880, unmarried. 
Thomas Thayer is not remembered in the local traditions, and 

probably soon left Brown's Settlement.' His name is in the first 
highway tax-list, 1798, between the Wilsons and Asa Bement, 
which position leads to the supposition that he lived in their 
mill-house, on the west side of the road, and that he came here 
about 1797, as a millwright, to assist in building their grist-mill, 
in that year, yet there is a possibility that he dwelt on lot ,185, 



2l8 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

where John Hedges afterward settled, as his tax was as large as 
many of those who owned farms. 

John Freeman, whose origin has not been learned, was living, 
in 1797, on the east side of th.e way, in a log house on a long nar- 
row farm of fifty-five and a half acres, on the south side of lot 58, 
and was taxed in that year to work three and a half days on the 
highway. In 1800 he was one of the nine postmasters in the new 
town of Tioga, and was elected one of the commissioners of 
highways, i April, 1801, and on the sixteenth of that month, he 
and Henry Moore laid the highway now known as Whig street. 
He sold his farm for$400 to Jonas Muzzy, S Dec, 1801, his wife, 
Ame Freeman, signing the deed, which was witnessed by Peter 
Wilson and John Freeman, Jr., who was probably their son. He 
moved to Spencer (now Caroline, in Tompkins Co.), and settled 
on the north half of lot 11, in the northwest quarter of township 
number 11, of Watkin's and Flint's "Twelve Townships," which 
he mortgaged 24 April, 1806, to Oliver Huntington, to secure 
him from any claims for dower which might be made by Free- 
man's daughter, Sally Steward, the widow of Henry Steward, 
upon certain land which Steward had ,sold to Huntington. The 
farm which he sold in Newark Valley has since been occupied by 
Jonas Muzzy, Samuel Addis, Samuel Johnson, Mrs. NancyQohn- 
son) Rich, George E. Rich, and lastly by William Floyd Monell. 

John and Amy Freeman had children : 

I. John. II, Barney, III. Sally, m Henry Steward. 

IV. Amy, m with Aaron Legg. 

Barney Freeman, a son of John and Ame Freeman, lived with 
his parents or near them, probably on the same lot, in 1797, and 
was taxed to work three days on the highway in 1798. He was 
baptized and joined the " First Church in Tioga," now Newark 
Valley, 20 Nov., 1803, on the first Sunday after its organization ; 
he being its tenth member, and the first to join it "on profession 
of faith." He died in November, 1808, according to the church 
record, perhaps at his father's house, in Caroline. He was long 
remembered as having unusual ability in vocal music, and as 
being " quite a singing-master." No record of wife or children 
has been found. 

" About this time (1797) a Mr. Fellows, of Spencer, Mass., came 
here with his son to locate a lot for him. They selected the lot 
Jonas Muzzy afterwards purchased, now owned by George Rich, 
of Owego, and in the town of Newark Valley. After complet- 
ing his arrangements, Mr. Fellows started for Massachusetts, and 
the son commenced chopping, feehng that now he was commenc- 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 219 

ing life in good earnest, and that every stroke was for his own 
future good. Some time during the day a limb fell, from a tree he 
was chopping, by which he was killed. That night Jonas Muzzy, 
who worked for Elisha Wilson, taking one of his horses, started 
to overtake Mr. Fellows. After a long and terrible ride he ar- 
rived, about daybreak, atatavern where Colesville now is, just as 
Mr. Fellows was preparing for breakfast. After getting some 
refreshment and rest, they returned to the settlement, and the 
son was buried in the Brown Cemetery." 

The foregoing account, quoted from page 126, of the history of 
four counties, is based wholly on the memories of the children of 
Jonas Muzzy, who often recited the particulars to them. There 
is reason to doubt its. truth, as to the names of the persons, for on 
that point their memories differed, some calling the najne Fellows, 
while others thought another was the true name. 

Mrs. Daniel James Borthwick, a granddaughter of Abel Law- 
rence who lived on the next farm, has many times heard the tra- 
dition as handed down in that family ; which says that John Free- 
man lived on the farm at the time the accident occurred ; that 
the young man was about seventeen years old and was the son 
of Mrs Freeman's brother, who had just made her a visit, and left 
the lad there hoping that a few weeks of life in the woods would 
benefit his health which was not good. He was not at work, but 
feeling homesick, had gone out to see Mr. Freeman at this work, 
and, when as a tree was about to fall, and he was told where to 
go, took a contrary course and was caught by the tree which 
crushed him to death. She thinks the name was Lavett orLeavett. 
Perhaps the real name may never be fully decided. 

The year 1797 must have been one of peculiar sadness to the 
early settlers; Isaac Brown and John Carpenter having died sud- 
denly, in April, and William Solomon Lawrence and this young 
man having been accidently killed in the summer. 

David Sherman Farrand, b at Canaan, Conn., 9 Jan., 1769 ; son 
of the Rev. Daniel and Jerusha (Boardman) Farrand, and grand 
son of Rev. Daniel and Jerusha (Sherman) Boardman of New 
Milford, Conn., married at Stockbridge, Mass., 5 May, 1796, with 
Mary Bacon, daughter of the Hon. John and Qertrude (Rousby) 
Bacon, who was born on her mother's plantation on the Pacomoke 
river, in Somerset county, Md., 11 Dec. 17,69. Her father, at 
her marriage, lived in Stockbridge, and gave her lot 265, on whir a 
they settled, as early as the spring of 1798, (see first highway dis- 
trict) though the family chronicle j^makes it two years later, and 
possibly Mr. Farrand did not bring his wife and children till 



220 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

the later date. She died 25 Feb. 1844. He died i April, 1849. 
Their children were : 

I. Lucia, b at Stockbridge, in Jan., 1798 ; changed her name 
to Jerusha, and married with William Pierson, who still lives on 
the homestead. She died 15 June 1880, without children. 

II. Elizabeth Bacon, b at Newark Valley, i Sept., 1800, and 
died there, unmarried, 17 April, 1856. 

III. Esther, b at Newark Valley, 18 Jan., 1803 ; and still resides 
there with her husband Daniel Chamberlain. 

IV; Mary Ann, b at Newark Valley, 15 April 1805, married 
with Henry Moore Muzzy. 

V. Francis Henry, b at Newark Valley, 12 Dec, 1809 ; d 25 Jan., 
1835, unmarried. 

Benjamin Sparrow was born at East Haddam, Conn., 9 
Nov., 1762, was baptized at Milhngton, Conn., 9 Jan., 1763, 
son of John and Anna Sparrow, from Eastham, Mass. He 
was in Brown's Settlement as early as 1798, (see first highway 
district,) and in 1804 lived in the north part of Owego, where 
George South wick afterward lived, and it was at his house that 
Dr. Tinkham, of Owego, died, while on his way home from a pro- 
fessional visit to Dea. Peter Wilson. Nothing is known of his 
family, except from Dr. Waldo's accounts for attendance on some 
of them. His place of residence in Brown's Settlement has not 
been identified. 

William Stow was taxed in 1802. He died 14 Sept., 1808, aged 
sixty years. He lived where Philander M. Moses built the house 
in which Henry Sprague now lives, on the east side of Owego. 
street. He choked to death at table, if tradition says truly. 

In 1798, according to the town records of Union, vol. I, p. 5, 
Abraham Brown was pathmasterof the " i6th District from S. W. 
cor. of Lot 432 to North line of p McMasters half township." 
This included the whole of the present towns of Berkshire and 
Newark Valley, and the list which follows probably includes the 
name of every man who was settled in the two towns in the 
spring of 1798. A few of the names can not now be located, and 
some of them do not otherwise appear. In Newark Valley, all 
of the settlers, at that time were probably in the valley, while in 
Berkshire some dwelt on the West hill, and some on the West 
Owego creek. The number opposite each name represents the 
number of days which each man was to work : 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 



221 



Joseph Gleason, Jr 3 

Josiah How 3^ 

Ephraim Cook ^^ 

Jesse Gleason 5 

Daniel Gleason 4 

Josiah Seeley 3 

■Caleb Gleason c,^ 

Azel Hovey Sf 

Asa Leonard 4^ 

Ebenezer Cook 3^ 

Consider. Lawrence . 3 

Abraham Johnson 3 

John Brown 5 

'^Levi Bailey 3 

Benjamin Sparrow 3 

^David Sherman Farrand. . . .^i 

*Uriah Simons 3 

^Elijah Wilson 4f 

*Peter Wilson 3^ 



*Thomas Thayer. 3 

Josiah Ball SJ 

Stephen Ball 3 

William Ball 3 

Daniel Ball 4^ 

Josiah Harris 3 

Benjamin Oney 3 

Zelotes Oney 3 

* Abraham Brown 4^ 

Jerfimiah Cammel 3 

*Asa Bement 6J- 

*Enoch Slosson 6f 

*Ezbon Slosson . . . .^ 3J 

*Solomon Williams 4 

*Joseph Hufford 3 ,. 

*John Freeman 3^ 

*Barney Freeman 3 

*Abel Lawrence 3J 

*Michael Jenks 4^ 

These names which have the * befere them were probably a:ll 
in what is now Newark Valley, and possibly one or two more. 
There is evidence that two of the names are incorrect: Josiah 
Harris should be Elisha Harris, and Joseph Hufford should be 
Joseph Hosford. 

Henry Moore, b at Simsbury, Conn., 30 Jan., 1755, son of 

Henry and Elizabeth ( ) Moore, settled in Stockbridge, Mass., 

where he married 21 Nov., 1782, with Lucy Churchill, slaughter 
of Samuel and Elizabeth (Curtis) Churchill of Stockbridge, where 
she was born, 22 Nov., 1762. In the begining of 1799, they came 
to the Boston Purchase and settled on lot 178, in a log house 
which stood a little south of where Mr. Loveland now lives. 
Afterwards he built a small framed house, and later a larger one, 
which, after being remodeled is now owned by Mr. Loveland. 
In the later years of their lives they lived on the corner, named 
irom him, in the hpuse now occupied by Mrs. Asher C. Tappan, 
and there they died ; he, 5 July, 1824; she, 22 June, 1846. Their 
children were : 

I. Thersey, b at Stockbridge, 14 Oct,, 1783 ; taught school in 
Asa Bement's barn in the summer of 1799; m with Jonas Muzzy. 

II. William Henry, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 23 May, 1785 ; 
en 8 Dec, 1814, with Caroline Ford. He bailt the house now 



222 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

occupied by George Dohs, on the east side of Whig street, and 
moved in 1816, to Berkshire, where he died 11 Dec, 1845. 

III. Sarah Judd, b at Stockbridge, 22 March, 1787 ; m with 
Henry Ball, of Berkshire. 

IV. Peter, b at West Stockbridge, 15 Jan., 1789; m i Jan., 
1824, with Eliza Harper Hyde, who was born in Virginia, 13 Jan., 
179B, daughter of Henr\' and Elizabeth (Harper) Hyde. They 
settled on the east side of Whig street in the first house above 
Moore's corner. She died 3 May, 1858. He m (2d) 27 Sept., 
i860, with Mary Almira (Smith; Copley, who it still living. He 
died 23 May, 1861. 

V. Alvah Churchill, b at West Stockbridge, 2 Feb., 1791 ; died 
10 Oct., 1813. 

VI. Olive Leonard, b at Stockbridge, 21 March, 1794; died 6 
Aug., 1862. 

VII. Daniel, b at Stockbridge, 18 Nov., 1796 ; a farmer and 
teacher; m at Lenox, Mass., 7 Oct., 1821, with Electa Porter, 
who was born at Colebrook, Conn., 18 Sept., 1797, daughter of 
James and Jerusha (Lucas) Porter. They settled on the north 
side of the road at Moore's Corner. He died 6 July, 1859. She 
died at Williamsburgh, L. I., (Brooklyn, E. D.) 23 April, 1868. 

VIII. Elizabeth, b at Newark Valley, 20 Oct., 1801 ; died. 

IX. Sophronia, b at Newark Valley, 14 June, 1808; died. 
Timothy Williams, son of Stephen Williams, came to Brown's 

Settlement, as the pioneer of his father's family, in the early part 
of 1800, bringing with him his younger brother, Stephen Williams, 
Jr., and settled on lot 103, which his father had bought of Hon. 
Amos Patterson. They boarded with Ezbon Slosson, in the log 
house where the Congregational lecture-room now stands, while 
building their own, log house, which stood on the site of the first 
house south of the Methodist parsonage. He married 12 Dec, 
1803, with Phebe Hedges, and settled in the original log house, 
with his father. In 1809, they moved to Victor, N. Y., where 
she died about 1815, or 1816. He married (2d) with a widow 
Keyes of Royalton, N. Y. He died at Grass Lake, Mich., about 
i860, aged nearly eighty years. His children were : 

I. Prudence, b in 1804 ; died at Victor, N. Y., about 1810, fron» 
an accidental injury to the head. She was commonly called 
"Dency." 

II. Nathan, b 9 Sept., 1806; settled at Grimsby, Canada West, 
where he m 15 Jan., 1827, with Rachel Wilcox, and died there, 
29 Oct., 1 88 1. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 223, 



III. Elisha, b 3 Aug., 1808; was brought up by Ezekiel Rich. 
He was at New Berlin, N. Y., about 1835, and his friends have 
never heard from him since that time. 

IV. Nancy, b at Victor, N. Y.; a very energetic and useful 
teacher, spent most of her active life in Newark Valley, and now 
lives at Ontario. She was brought up by her grand-father,. 
Jonathan Hedges. 

V. Lydia Selina, b at Victor, N. Y.; was brought up by Dea. 
William B. Bement. She m with John McGregor, of Grimsby,. 
Canada West, where she d about i860. 

VI. Emeline, b at Victor, N. Y., m with Henry Robinson, of 
Grimsby, C. W., and died there about 1865. 

VII. Maria, b at Victor, N. Y., m with John Rayfior, and m 
(2d) with Ezra Parney, and is still living at Townsend, Norfolk; 
Co., Ont. 

Children by second wife. 

VIII. Sally, b at Grass Lake, Mich , m with Jackson Simpson. 

IX. Eunice, b at Grass Lake, Mich., married, and she and her 
husband died in Iowa. 

Lyman Rawson was in Newark Valley as early as 1800, and 
was taxed there in 1802. He lived on the farm, since owned for 
many years by Dea. Elijah Curtis, and his brother-in-law Lemuel 
Blackman, dwelt there with him. He owned a distillery, in the 
hollow, west of -Whig street, just below the place where Jules 
Fivaz now lives, and the well at that place was dug to supply it 
with water, and was referred to in the survey of Whig street, 16 
April, 1801, as "Lyman Rawson's well." He married with 
Deborah Keith, daughter of Eleazer Keith.* After leaving 
Newark Valle3', they settled in the valley of the West Owego 
creek, in Caroline, and the place is now known as Rawsom Hol- 
low. He died 25 July, 1826, aged 51 yeairs. She died 16 
March, 1851, aged 75 years and 11 days. 

Isaac Rawson, was also an early settler of Newark Valley, liv- 
ing at the place where Egbert Bement now lives, and was taxed 
in 1802. He sold the place, probably to Levi Bailey, about 1807. 

Nathaniel Blackman and wife, Sarah, lived and died in Peru,. 
Mass. They had ten children : 

*Eleazer Keith, m with Mary Green; they dwelt in Marlborough, Conn., where he died 
during the revolution. She died at Lyman Rawson's, aged gg years. Children: 
• I. Eleazer, settled in Peru, Mass. II. Deborah, b 5 March, 1776; m with Lymaa 
Rawson, see text. III. Eunice, m with Lemuel Blackman. IV. Rhoda, m with Abra- 
ham Blackman. V. Luther, m with Mary Hooker, of Genesee, N. Y., and settled at 
Rawson Hollow, in Carolitie, where he died 11 April, 1812, aged 36 years. 



224 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

I. Eleazer, remained in Peru. 

II. Nathaniel, remained in Peru. 

III. Abraham, b about 8 Oct., 1766; married with Rhoda 
Keith, and settled in Caroline, where his grandson, Henry Black- 
man, has since lived. She died 9 July, 1839, figed 67 years. He 
-died 19 July, 1853, aged 86 years, 9 months and 11 days. 

IV. Martha, married with James Tracy. 

V. Leonard, married at Peru, Mass., with Eunice Keith ; they 
came early to Lisle, and thence, soon after, to Newark Valley, 
and settled on the north half of lot 143, in company with his 
brother-in-law, .Lyman Rawson. They sold the farm to Edward 
Edwards, and moved to Caroline. In 1812 they returned to 
Newark Valley and dwelt till 1824, on the southwest quarter of 
lot 261, about forty rods east of the West creek road, and on the 
south side of the hill road. In 1820, he managed the saw-mill 
there, which was rated at thirty thousand feet per year. In 1824, 
he moved to a place on Berkshire hill, which he afterward sold 
to Marble Cushman. 

VI. Sarah, m Ezekiel Jewett, of Caroline. 

VII. Lydia, m with Blanchard, of Marathon, and died at 

the house of her sister, Mrs. Tracy, about a year after her mar- 
riage, without children. 

VIII. Levi, lived with Eli, and died unmarried. 

IX. Esther. 

X. Eli, m with Susan Jenks, daughter of Elisha Jenks, of 
Jenksville. 

The children of Lemuel and Eunice (Keith) Blackman were : 
I. Russell, b before 1800. II. Horace. III. Mary. 

IV. Silence, m with Durand, and lives at Jackson, Mich., 

a. widow. 

V. Julia Ann, b 10 Jan., 1808; m with Elizur B. Chapman, 
and in May, 1830, removed to Jackson, Mich. 

VI. , b 20 July, i8iOj a daughter. 

Stephen Williams, b at Hartford, Conn., about 1743 ; married 
with Rachel Halliday, and settled in Stockbridge, Mass., where 
lie made wooden plows, wagons, carts, and did some carpenter's 
work. In the beginning of 1801, in the very early days of the 
present century, they came to the "promised land," and settled 
in the log house which their sons had prepared for them in the 
preceding year. After a few years he built a small framed house, 
which has been rebuilt, and has been for fifteen years the home 
of the Rev. Jay Clizbe. She joined the church at Stockbridge, 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 225 

in 1792; was dismissed 5 June, 1803; became a member of the 
new church in Tioga, now Newark Valley, 20 Nov., 1803, the 
first Sunday after it was organized, and died 20 June, 1826. He 
■died 15 Oct., 1823, aged eighty years. Their children were: 

I. Nathan, b at Stockbridge, Mass., and died there when six- 
teen years old. 

II. Roxa, b at Stockbridge, 7 July, 1776; m 4 July, 1804, with 
Pynchon Dwight. See Dwight genealogy, p. 726. 

III. Timothy, b about 1778. 

IV". Lydia, b about 1782 ; died in 181 1, aged 29 years. 

V. Stephen, b at West Stockbridge, Mass., 19 Aug., 1783. 

VI. Henry, b at West Stockbridge, Mass., in 1786. 

VII. Oliver, b at West Stockbridge, Mass., 12 Oct,»i788. 

VIII. Eliza, b at West Stockbridge, Mass., about 1792 ; she 
■was commonly called Betsey, and perhaps her full name 'was 
Elizabeth. She taught school in 18 18, opposite the east end of 
Silk street, the first school in that district. She married with 
Leander Hooper, and settled in Royalton, N. Y. 

Jonathan Hedges was born about 1749, probably at East Hamp- 
ton, Long Island. It is probable that he moved first to New 

Jersey, where he married with a Miss Russell, who may have 

■died before he left New Jersey. He settled on lot 1.83, as early 
as 1801. He was a weaver. The road from Berkshire street to 
his house, two hundred and twenty-eight rods long, was laid in 
1805. He m (2d) with Catharine Bowen. She was born at New- 
port, R. I., and dwelt there till after the war of the revolution, 
and died at Newark Valley, 18 Jan. 1833, aged 72 years. He 
■died 10 April, 1835, aged 86 years. His children were : 

I. Jason, a mason, no records of him have been found, except 
the birth of one of his children, 9 Dec, 1808, and another, 24 
Juty, 1810. He seems, in 1820, to have lived on the farm with 
his father, and to have had four children. In 1827 he Hved in a 
small framed house that stood till 1840, where Philander P. Moses 
built the house in which Henry Sprague now lives; and not long 
after that he moved to Flamborough, Wentworth Co., Canada 
West, vvtiere he died. 

II. Phebe, m with Timothy Williams. 
The following were by the second wife : 

III. Daniel, settled in Candor, N. Y., and had several children, 
one of whom was Daniel Miller Hedges. He bought for $519, 
23 Nov., 1805, 173 acres of lot 380, of Pierpont Edwards, of New 
York city, and probably lived for a time on that in Berkshire. 



226 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

IV. John.b about 1790; m with ^eressa Maria Snow, and set- 
tled on the homestead of his father, where she died 16 Aug., 
1847, aged 37 years. He died 22 Sept., 1859, aged 69 years, and 
leaving a widow, Angeline, who died at Candor, N. Y., 24 Jan.,. 
1886. She was born about April, 1805. 

V. Esther, m with Isaac Miller, of Caroline, N. Y. 

VI Catharine, m with Harvey Wilkinson, and went west. 

Joseph Waldo, b at Coventry, Conn., 7 April,. 1780, fourth sore 
of John and Lucy (Lyman) Waldo, came to Brown's Settlement 
about 1801, soon after his uncle Dr.. Joseph Waldo came, and ta 
distinguish them he was called Joseph Waldo, 2d. He bought 
some land on the north part of lot 217, and in March, 1802, began 
to trade there, in a small building. According to his account- 
book, nails were then one shilling and six pence per pound ; 7x9 
glass, ten cents per pane ; and six yards of purple calico, at 6s. 
6d. per yard, or $4.88 for the whole, was enough to make a dress 
for Josiah Balls's wife ; while Elisha Wilson bought seven and a 
half yards of chintz, at 6s. 6d. per. yard ; but whiskey was one 
dollar per gallon, and lump sugar thirty-nine cents per pound. 
He married in Jan., 1808, with Mary Waldo, daughter of Dr. 
Joseph Waldo, and about that time built his house, which has- 
since been occupied by the Rev. Marcus Ford, Lewis' Smith, 
Harvey B. Smith, arid owned in 188.7 by Mrs. Ann Eliza Law- 
rence. He and his wife joined the church 3 Oct., 1819, and were 
dismissed 2 July, 1824. She died 8 Oct., 1830. Their children 
were: 

I. Margaret, b 17 Sept., 1810, bap 3 Oct.. 1819, joined the 
church on the same day, and was dismissed 8 May, 1831. 

II. Martin Bliss, b 9 Aug , 1811 ; bap 3 Oct., 1819. 

Mia! Dean, b at Adams, Mass., 14 Feb., 1768, son of Perez and 
Sibyl (Pearce) Dean, m Sarah Stafford, who was born 23 Nov., 
1771, daughter of Abel and Rebecca (Short) Stafford. They 
came to Owego, in 1793, (with her fathers family), and settled 
first at the head of the Narrows, where Joel Talcott afterward 
dwelt. After the death of William Solomon Lawrence, Mr. 
Dean bought his place on the north part of lot 63. Here he 
built a saw-mill, where the Knapp family now live, and that is 
said to be the first dam which was built across the creek in this 
town, as the dam to the Wilson mill only crossed a branch of it. 
He was named in the ta^c-list of 1802. She died 7 March, 1822. 
He married (2d) with Philotha Rude, widow of Hefford, 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEV. 22/ 

and she' died 26 Aug., 1849. He died 22 June, 1849. Their 
■children were : 

I. Alanson, b 28 Dec, 1789; m with Laura Dewey. He died, 
without children, 8 Feb., 1851 ; she died 23 Aug., 1866. 

II. Perez Dean, b 17 Dec, 1791 ; m with Betsey Sterling, of 
Candor, N. Y., and went to Oxford, Upper Canada. 

III. Sibyl Dean, b at Owego, 15 Aug., 1794; m with Richard 
Perkins. 

IV. Stafford Abel, b at Owego, 16 Jan., 1797; m 14 Sept., 
1820, with Abigail Warren, who died 16 Feb., 1859. He m (2d) 
with Harriet (Tiffany) Udell, and died 21 April, 1868. 

V. Mial, b at Newark Valley, 20 Sept., 1799; m 11 May, 1819, 
with Bethia Lane. He died in Michigan. ^ 

VI. Frederick S., b 20 Feb., 1802; Married with Caroline 
Jayne, who died 13 April, 1827. He m (2d) with Harriet Clark, 
of Owego, and moved to Michigan. 

VII. Lyman, b 20, March, 1864; m with Esther Scott. 

~ VIII. Sarah, b 15 Sept., 1807, m with Joseph E. Russell. 

IX. Deidamia, b 28 Feb., 1810; m with Alonzo Brundage. 

X. Leroy, b 17 or 20 May, 1812 ; m with Betsey Tapper. 

XI. Clarissa, b 20 June, 1814; m with Wood. 

Joel Gaylord, a shoemaker, came from Connecticut as early as 
iSoi.and in July of that year he was living in a log house just where 
stands the piggery at the south end of the ^ying of Scott Smith's 
house. His name was on the tax-list of 1802. He m with Experience 
Lawrence. He bought of John Rewey the farm now owned by 
Dea. Eben Griswold,on lot 23, and dwelt there till 23 May, 1822, 
then moved to Oak Hill, in Union, N. Y., having sold his place to 
Phineas Spaulding. A few years later he moved to Springvilie, 
Erie Co., N; Y. It has been impossible to get a full record of his 
•children, all of whom were born in Newark Valley. 

I. William, b about 1803 ; m 8 Jan., 1829, with Eliza Ann Wil- 
liams. They moved to Union, N. Y., and near where theschool- 
-house now stands, in the hamlet of Hooper, he had a shop in 
which he. made wagons and fanning-mills. 

II. Alvena, b about 1805, and died before Dec, 1820. 

III. Horace, b 17 March, 1806; went to Union, in 1822, and 
there married with Rebecca Ann Powers, daughter of James 
Powers, of Union. He moved to Springvilie, N. Y., and his son 
Oeorge Hamilton Gaylord was living there a few years ago. 

IV. Joel was probably the one who was born 26 May, 1808. He 
became blind, and went to Pennsylvania, where he died. 



228 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

V. Joseph, b about 1815, was only seven years old when his 
father left town, since which no account of him has been found. 
Several people have remembered him as the youngest of four 
boys. 

VI. , name not found, b 3 March, 1822, probably died 

young. 

Linus Gaylord, a brother of Horace Gaylord, and probably 
several years younger, had a wife Sarah, and they settled on the 
west side of the creek, on lot 59 ; in a log house which stood just 
northwest of the bridge which crosses the race of Sidney Belcher's 
saw mill. The new road up the west side of the creek covers the 
ground on which it stood, and a very handsome elm tree, which 
grew up in the southeast corner of the house still marks the spot. 
On the twenty-ninth day of June 1820, he went out after supper 
to cut a few more trees, to make his work for the day look a little 
better ; after a while his wife failed to hear his ax, and on going 
out to look for him found him senseless and bleeding with his 
skull broken by a falling limb. She made an alarm, and soon the 
neighbors came and carried him into the house. Dr. Waldo was 
called, and trepanned the skull but he did not rally from the shock, 
and died the next morning. Mrs. Gaylord returned fo Connecti- 
cut after a few years, with her children, three sons and two 
daughters, all of whom were less than ten years old at the father's 
death, and the youngest was born 6 Jan., 1820. Their children 
were : 

I. Eson. II. Araminta. III. Cephas. IV. Polly. V. Linus, b 6 
Jan. 1820. 

Enoch Slosson Williams, lived where his grandson Royal Root 
Williams now lives, a little north of Hosford street, on the north- 
west corner of lot 98. He was a wheelwright and cabinet-maker. 
He was born at Stockbridge, Mass., 13 Dec, 1781, son of Abijah 
and Lucinda (Slosson) Williams, and, as his mother died when 
he was only six months old, was brought up in the family of his 
grandfather, Enoch Slosson, and came with Ihem to Newark 
Valley. He learned his trade with Joel Farnham, of Tioga, N. 
Y. He m 26 Dec. 1802, with Rachel Wood, ot Owego, who was 
born 19 May 1787; died 22 Aug., 1820, and was the first person 
buried in Hope Cemetery, on Thursday, 24 August, 1820, except 
two who were removed from other graves, on the same day. He 
m (2d) iMarch, 1821, with Betsey Hull, daughter of Silas and 
Eunice Hull of Berkshire. She was born 19 Aug., 1793, and died 
17 Dec, 1853. He died at Reynoldsville, N. Y., 8 Sept., 1855, 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 22(^ 

and was buried near his wives in Hope Cemetery. He built the 
first saw-mill where Hunt's old mill now stands, on the east 
side of the creek; and afterward built on the "brook which comes 
out of Glen Echo, a few rods above where Charles Baldwin now 
lives, and near the place where Stephen Williams's sons, Stephen^ 
Henry and Oliver Williams had formerly built one. Children : 

I. Emeline, b 22 Feb., 1804; m with Charles Farnham. 

II. Eliza Ann, b 13 April, 1806; m with William Gaylord. 

III. Almerin, b 30 Aug., 1808; m \yith Margaret Van Wormer.. 

IV. Juliet, b 8 Sept., 181 1 ; m with Marshal Hotchkin. 

V. William Thomas, b 11 Aug., 1814; m with Lucia Ann Legg, 
and m (2d) with Mrs. Doney. He resides in Newark Valley. 

VI. Marquis de la Fayette, b 14 March, 1817 ; m with Almira 
Allen, and (2d) with Margaret Eugenia Farley, and now lives at 
Trumansburgh, N. Y. 

VII. Horatio Nelson, b 8 Feb., 1820; m with Emily Brown, 
and m (2d) with Anna S. Naramore ; settled at Painted Post, N. Y, 

VIII. Franklin, b 4 Nov., 182 1 ; resides at Palmyra, N. Y. 

IX. Theodore, b 12 March, 1824; resides at Newark Valley. 

X. Elizabeth Rachel, b 23 Oct., 1826. 

XI. Sarah Jane, b 15 Jan. 1829 ; m with Washington A. Noble. 

XII. Enoch Slosson, b 16 Jan,, 183 1 ; resides in Candor, N. Y.. 

XIII. Eunice Augusta, b 3 Aug., 1835 ; m with Riley T. Dean. 
Pynchon Dwight was born in Lenox, Mass., 24 June, 1780, son 

of Joseph and Lydia (Dewey) Dwight. " In 1795 he went ta 
Cooperstown, and from there in 1801, to Cincinnatus, and thence 
in 1802, to Berkshire, N. Y., where he spent the next fifteen years. 
He then removed to Royalton, N. Y., where he spent the next 
twenty-three years of his life, and in 1840 went to Jackson, Mich., 
to live, where he d Aug. 3, 1855, aged 75." See the Dwight Gen- 
ealogy, p. 726. He married 4 July, 1804, with Roxa Williams, 
daughter of Stephen Williams. She died at Royalton, 9 Jan., 
1832. He m (2d) 10 July, 1836, with Mrs. Betsey Bascom. His 
home in Newark Valley was the south part of the north half of 
lot 58. He built his first log house about where Ephraim Nixon 
now lives, supposing it to be on his land, but it proved to be north- 
of the line, on that of his brother, Adolphus Dwight He sold 
this farm, about 18 16, to Moses Spaulding, whose son, Lucius- 
Wells Spaulding, still lives on it. " He is said to have been a 
man of noble parts, pleasing and intelligent, and commanding in 
his personal appearance. He was in early liSe a teacher, but his- 
chief employment in life was that of farming. He was never 



230 • TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

rich, but always honest and upright in all his dealings, and was a 
kind father and benevolent friend." His children were : 

I. Henry, b 25 J-une. 1805, died 24 March, 1806. 

II. Henry Williams, b 30 June, 1807; m with Eliza Columbia 
Chaplin, of Hartland, N. Y., and settled at Royalton, N. Y., 
where he died in 1843. 

III. Harriet Eliza, b 12 Jan., 1809; m with Warren Green 

IV. Lydia Williams, b 2 Nov., 1811 ; m with John H. Bennett. 

V. Emily, b 4 Jan., 1814, d 3 Sept., 1837; "an accomplished 
young lady, and of a very lovely character." 

VI. Roxa Semantha, b 23 Sept., 1820; m with Hiram Stevens, 
and died 19 Aug., 1854. 

Adolphus Dwight, b at Lenox, Mass., 15 July, 1782, son of Jo- 
■seph and Lydia (Dewey) Dwight, came to Newark Valley about 
the same time that his brother, Pynchon Dwight, came. He set- 
tled on the north part of lot 58, in a small framed house about 
where William T. Loring built his brick house, on the west side 
of the road. He married 26 Nov., 1807, with Mercy Dean, who 
was born 22 Oct. 1787, daughter of Perez and Sibyl (Pearce) 
Dean. He sold his place about 18 17, to Spencer Spaulding, and 
moved to Cincinnatus, N. Y., and, after 1838, to Pike, Wyoming 
Co., N. Y., where he died 31 Dec, 1858, aged' 77. His children 
were: 

I. Titus Harrison, b 14 Aug., 1808; settled at Pike, N. Y. 

II. -Lydia Dewey, b 11 Feb., 1810; m with Alvah Gregory. 

III. Laura, b 6 Oct.. 1812; m with Noyes Wheeler Brown. 

IV. Amanda, b 28 Jan., 1815; m with George L. Bosworth. 

V. Chauncey, b 23 March, 1817; m with Charlotte Morrison, 
and settled at Milan, Ohio. 

VI. Nancy, b 24 Dec, 1819; m with Rufus Wilkinson. 

VII. Polly, b 23 March, 1822'; m with John Wilkinson. 

VIII. Adeline, b 23 July, 1824; m with Calvin Cone. 

IX. Jane Louisa, b 17 Feb., 1827; m with Curtis L. Barnes. 
See the Dwight Genealogy, pp. 729, 730. 

Parley Simons, born at Brooklyn, Conn., son of Francis and 
Zipporah (Cleveland) Simons, married with Hopeful Bement, who 
was born at Stockbridge, Mass., 22 June, 1774, daughter of Asa 
and Ruth (Neal) Bement. Her father gave her the south half of 
lot No. 19, next to the south line of the town, and about 1803 the}' 
settled on the east end of it, building their house east of the road. 
It has been said that they dwelt there as early as 1801, but No- 
vember, 1803, is the earliest date for which there is positive evi- 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 23 r 



dence of his residence here. She died i May, 1837. He went, 
about 1849, with his son, to Wisconsin, and died there. Theii- 
children were: 

I. Francis Bement, b about 1804; married with Sarah Rewey, 
who was born at Stockbridge, Mass., in September, 1801, daugh- 
ter of John and Lucy (Taylor) Rewey, and settled in the house 
with his parents. She died 23 Jan., 1847, aged 45 years and 4 
months. He married (2d), 10 Nov., 1847, with his cousin, Abby 
Lavinia Hotchkin. 

n. Nancy, b about 6 May, 1806; married with Lewis Rewey, 
and after his death, with Mr. Heath, of Speedsville, N. Y. 

in. Hopeful Maria, b 13 July, 1808; and died 28 Feb., 1828. 

Richard Ely Colt, whose birthplace and parentage have not 
been ascertained, was in Brown's Settlement as early as Septem- 
ber, 1803. He settled on lot 224, and built on the north border of 
It, the small framed house in which Capt. Levi Branch and his son- 
in-law, Ansel H. Hammond, lived so long, and which was finally 
moved by Daniel H. Miller, to make room for his present house. 
His wife, Elizabeth, died 22 Nov., 1809. He sold his farm about 
1814, to Capt. Branch, and returned to Pittsfield, Mass. Of his 
children : Laura P. Colt, b about 6 Jan., 1804, died 21 July, 1805, 
aged 18 months and 15 days; and another was born 20 Aug., 
1808. There are indications that the maiden name of Mrs. Colt 
was Parsons. 

John Harmon, b in New Marlborough, Mass., 17 Sept., 1778, 
son of David and Jerusha (Wilcox) Harmon, came to Brown's 
Settlement as early as November 1803. He married about 1805, 
with Jemima Hovey, and settled on the northeast quarter of lot 
258, where his house was burned in April 1821, and in that fire 
his family record was burned. In 1831 he moved to the south 
half of lot 257, where he built a brick house on the site of the 
first and second meeting-houses, and some people thought he 
showed some extravagance in going to Stockbridge, Mass., for 
marble caps for the doors and windows. His wife died 28 
March, 1838. He married (2d) with Mrs. Phebe (Spaulding) 
Dix. He died 17 Feb., 1853. His children were : 

L Abigail, b 15 Sept,, 1806; married with Levi Branch, and 
after his death, with Marshal Hotchkin. 

n. Jerusha, b 18 July, 1808 ; married with Samuel Smith 
Watson. 

in. , b 23 Sept., 181 1 ; died on the same day. 

Gaylord Harmon, b at New Marlborough, Mass., 4 Feb., 1785, 

16* 



232 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

came to Brown's Settlement not long after the arrival of his 
brother, John Harmon, and lived in the same part of the town 
for several years. In 1820 he dwelt in a log house on the west 
side of Owego street, where Edward Joslin has lately built a 
house, just north of Dea. Eben Griswolds' house. A tew years 
later he lived on the north side of the Wilson creek, west of 
Berkshire street, in the log house which Elisha Wilson first built. 
He married with Anice Warren, who died at Hector, N. Y., 4. 
Jan., 1831. He died at Mansfield, Penn., 28 Sept., 1850. It has 
been impossible to find a full list of their children. Some of their 
names follow: Frederick, b 10 Oct., 1807. Anna, b 13 Aug.,. 
1809. Wealthy, b 26 Jan., 1816; died at Corning, N. Y., 13 Jan., 
1879. Washington, b 9 April, 18 18. George, b 2 April, 1820. 

, b about 1822; died aged one day. Gabriella, b 27 Oct.y 

1824. , b in Jan., 1831, and was buried with the mother. 

David Hovey, b in Connecticut, about 1781, youngest child of* 
Azel and Jemima (Phelps) Hovey; m about 1806 with Lucinda 
Harmon, whom he first met about a year before at the marriage 
of his sister, Jemima, with John. Harmon, the brother of Lucinda. 
Thev settled on the farm now owned by Stephen W. Ames, on 
lot 223, and on selling that to Dea. Ebenezer Pierce, in 1817,. 
removed to the house now owned by George Dohs, on the east 
side of Whig street, and thence in the spring of 1822, to the house 
which he had just built, on the south part of lot 183, which is now 
occupied by Charles Muzzy. He bad cut away just enough of 
the woods to make room for the house. In this house she died 
on Saturday, 30 July (though the church record says 29) 1825, 
aged about 42 years. He became ill the next week, with typhoid 
fever, and died 19 Sept., 1825, aged about 44 years. Their chil- 
dren were: 

I. Nathan, b in Nov. 1807 ; was brought up by Peter Moore, 
m with Euretta Townsend of Great Barrington, Mass.; traded 
for several years in Newark Valley, and moved to Clyde, N. Y. 

II. David, b 15 Jan., 1810; a teacher, settled in Texas. He 
was brought up by Beriah Wells. 

III. Charlotte, b 3 May, 1812; was brought up by Elijah Belcher 
of Berkshire; and died 5 July, 1869, unmarried. 

IV. Chester, b 9 Feb., 1814 ; was brought up by Dea. Nathaniel 
Ford of Berkshire, and died 9 Feb., 1847, unmarried. 

V. Henry, b-2 June, 1817; was brought up by Ezbon Slosson ; 
settled in Jackson, Mich. He was wounded in the eye at the 
battle of the Wilderness, and typhoid fever supervened, causing 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 233 

his death 19 June, 1864. He was buried at Arhngton Heights. 

VI. Mary, b 25 Jan., 1820; was brought up by John Harmon, 

Vn. John, b 25 Jan,, 1823 ; was brought up by John Harmon ; 
m I Jan., 1845, with Sarah Ann Dix, and was killed by the cars 
at Union, N. Y., 19 Feb., 1863. 

Samuel Addis, married with Submit Bartlett, who was born at 
Durham, Conn., 10 April, 1 764, and baptized there, 15 April, 1764, 
daughter of Abraham and Submit Bartlett. After living at West 
Stockbridge, Mass., they moved in the spring of 1806, in com- 
pany with Samuel Johnson, and settled on the south part of lot 
58, previously owned by John Freeman and Jonas Muzzy, and 
built thereon a small framed house. In 1810 they went to live in 
the family of Hart Newell (whose wife was a younger sister of 
Mrs. Addi^) and moved with them in 1824 to Serapronius, now 
Moravia, N. Y., where she died, without children, 19 Sept., 1825, 
having been wholly blind for thirteen years. He went to Canada,, 
and died there, date and place not known. 

Daniel Churchill, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 16 Dec, 1777; son 
of Jacob and Lyllis (Reed) Churchill ; a mason ; came to Brown's. 
Settlement in 1800, with the two sons of Stephen Williams. He 
may not have bought land here at once, as he was not taxed in 
1802; but soon after that he bought the farm now occupied by 
Mrs. Wells and her children, on the south part of lot 103, and built 
thereon the south front part of the house now in use there. About 
1806 he married with Achsah Gaston, who was then visiting with 
her sister, William Gardner's wife. She died 30 Aug., 1808, leav- 
ing him with three children, the eldest only seventeen months 
old. He then moved into the house with Mrs. Experience (Staf- 
ford) Brown, widow of Joseph Brown, and a few months later 
married with her. . Their home was east of Owego street, on the 
gravelly knoll just north of Hope cemetery. He died 2 March, 
1847. She died on Sunday, 25^ June, 1854, though her headstone 
gives the date 6 June. His children were : 

I. Erheline, b 15 March, 1807; m with James W. Hammond. 

II. Achsah, twin, b 15 Aug., 1808; m with Peter Rutherford, 
of Un}6n, N. Y. 

III. Annis, twin, b 15 Aug., 1808; m with Sylvester Howard. 

IV. Seymour, b 22 Dec, 1810; a physician; m 4 July, 1830, 
with Catharine Day, and died 9 July, 1864, 

V. George, b 25 Feb., 1813. 

VI. Amanda, b 18 May, 1816; died in July, 1837. 



234 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

VII. Mary Belinda, b 2 April, 182b; m with Dr. Carlton Mon- 
roe Noble, and now lives at Waveriy, N. Y., a widow. 

Alanson Dewey, son of Abner Dewey, and brother of John 
Bement's wife, was born about 1780. He married at Stockbridge, 
Mass., 29 Nov., 1802, with Annis Churchill, daughter of Jacob 
and Lyllis (Reed) Churchill, of Stockbridge, where she was born 
20 Sept., 1782. In March, 1806, they moved from Stockbridge to 
Newark Valley, and were living here as lately as the latter part 
of 1810. John Bement brought his family and goods, and his 
charge was made 31 March, 1806. 

" To Journey to Chenango, seven days 8s. per day . ..$ g.34 

" Six days coming home, at $1 6.00 

" Expenses on the road 10.00" 

and the account was settled 13 Aug., 1810. No one has been 
found who could tell where Mr. Dewey dwelt, when he left town, 
to what place he went, nor the number or names of his children, 
of whom it is only known that one received medical treatment 8 
June, 1808, and died lo June, 1808; one was born 13 Jan., 1810, 
and probably died very early , and another was born 22 Oct., 
1810; since which nothing has been learned of any member of the 
family. 

John Waldo, b at Scotland, Conn., 27 Jan., 1776, second son of 
John and Lucy (Lyman) Waldo, married 18 March, 1798, with 
Polly Rich, of Cherry Valley, N. Y., who was born at Worces- 
ter, Mass., in 1781, daughter of Luther and (Jones) Rich ; 

she died 6 Feb., 1799. He married (2d) 17 Sept., 1800, with 
Betsey Clark, daughter of Pharez and Olive (Jewett) Clark, of 
Preston, now Jewett City, Conn. They came to Brown's Settle- 
ment in 1806, and he built and settled in a small framed house near 
that of his brother, Joseph Waldo, 2nd. He afterward moved 
this house to the farm of David S. Farrand, which he worked 
for several years. About 1810 they went over the east hill and 
began the settleriient on the Wilson creek, where Dea. William 
B. Bushnell has since lived. She died 29 Jan., according to the 
grave-stone in Hope cemetery, or 30 Jan., 1836, aged 67 years, 
according to the family record. He died 18 March, 1867, and 
was buried in the little cemetery which he set apart for the public 
to use as a burial-place, on the west bank of the Wilson creek, 
on his farm, at what should, have been called Waldo, instead of 
New Connecticut, or Connecticut, as the postoiice there was 
named. His children were: 

I. Rensselaer John, b at Cherry Valley, N. Y., 26 Jan., 1799, 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 235 



m 13 June, 1822, with Eunice Parsons Branch and settled in 
Berkshire, where they died; he, 28 March, 1870; she, 24 Jan., 

1875- 

II. Orson, b 17 March, 1802, m in Sept., 1825, with Lydia 
Waldo, daughter of Lynian Waldo, and died at Moravia, N. Y., 
23 Dec, 1871. 

III. Polly, b 2 Jan., 1804, m with Elijah Belcher. 

IV. Emma, b 6 Feb., 1806, m with Julius Hopkins Spaulding. 

V. Lucy, b 29 Feb., 1808, died 19 Feb., 1831. 

VI. Clark, b 19 May, 1810, m i Dec, 1831, with Harriet Bel- 
cher, and died 18 May, 1853. 

VII. Lyman Llewellin, b 6 Feb., 1812, m in June, 1836, with 
Grace Ann Andrews. % 

VIII. Joseph, b 31 July, 1814, died 7 Aug., 1814. 

IX. Albert Gallatin, b 2 Aug., 1815, married in June, 1846, 
with Sarah Kennedy. 

X. Betsey Clark, b 23 Jan., 18 18, resides in Newark Valley. 

XI. Charles, b 16 Dec, 1819, married 20 Jan., 1848, with An- 
toinette Phelps. 

XII. Milton, b 28 Aug., 1822, a clergyman of the Presbyter- 
ian church, graduated at Hamilton College, in first division, 
1848; A.M., 1851; D.D., 1868; and at the Auburn Theological 
Seminary in 1852. He has been a very active, useful man as a 
teacher and as pastor of several churches. He married in Auburn, 
N. Y., 6 Sept., 1855, with Maria Leonard Hardenbergh, daugh- 
ter of John Haring and Hester Van der Heyden (Allen) Harden- 
bergh, of Auburn, where she was born 29 Dec, 1829. They 
reside at Amherst, Mass., but on account of his health he spends 
most of his time in Florida. 

John Bement. b at Stockbridge, Mass., 3 Sept., 1776, son of Asa 
and Ruth (Neal) Bement ; married with Amy Dewey, who was 
born 23 March, 1778, daughter of Abner Dewey. They dwelt 
in Stockbridge till April, 1807, then moved to Newark Valley, 
and settled on the north half of lot 19, which was given to him 
by his father. This place he sold to William Jayne, and moved, 
in March 1820, to Victor, N. Y., where they died ; she, 30 March, 
1826; he, 31 March, 1843. Their children were: 

[. Phebe, b 26 March, 1798 ; m with John C. Lincoln. 

II. Heman Dewey, b 18 March, 1799. 

III. Sewell, died when two years old. 

IV. Esther, b 19 Sept., 1802. 

V. John Sewell, b 9 June, 1804; d 13 Nov., 1813. 



236 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

VI. Mary Amy, b 13 Nov., 1806; m with Silas Boughton, and 
after his death, with De Forest Boughton, sons of Abraham 
Boughton, and dwelt in Victor, N. Y. 

VII. Asa Marshall, b 8 Oct., 1809. 

VIII. John Charles, b 31 Aug., 1811 ; settled at Waverly, Bre- 
mer Co;, Iowa. 

IX. Hopeful, b 21 Nov., 1813 ; d 4 April, 1814. 

X. , a son, b in 1814; died aged six weeks, between 14 

Nov. and 9 Dec, 1814. 

XI. Hopeful, b 24 Oct., 1817. 

XII. Jane, b at Victor, 22 Feb., 1823. 

Hart Newell, b at Farmington, Conn., 25 June, 1776, son of 
John and Ruth (Merriam) Newell; married with Mindwell Bart- 
lett, who was born at Durham, Conn., 6 July, 1770, and baptized 
there 8 July, 1770, daughter of Abraham and Submit Bartlett. 
They dwelt for a time in West Stockbridge, Mass., then moved 
to Union, N. Y., and thence, about 1807 or 1808, to Newark Val- 
ley, and settled in a log house which had been built by William 
Solomon Lawrence, on the south half of lot 63. Here he built 
the framed house which was afterward burned. Oliver Williams 
was married at his house in 1809. In 1824, having sold his farm 
to Lyman Barber, he moved to Sempronius, now Moravia, N. 
Y., and after some years, to Wales, Erie Co., N. Y., where they 
died. The date of her death was 28 Jan., 1849 '< ^^^^ of his death 
has not been learned. Their children were : 

I. Dennis, bat West Stockbridge, Mass., 12 Dec, 1801, by 
family record, while the town record says 1802 ; married 16 Dec, 
1824, with Catharine M. Curtis, who was born 9 March, 1806, 
and died 20 Feb., 1851. They settled in Aurora, Erie Co., N. 
Y., where he was living as late as 1870. 

II. Mindwell, b at Union, N. Y., 16 Nov.. 1804; married 9 
April, 1830, with Joseph Munsell Merrow, who died 9 Dec, 1859, 
at Moravia, N. Y., where she still resides. 

John Rewey, born at Stockbridge, Mass., 28 Feb., 1778, son of 
John and Hannah (Neal) Rewey, was apprenticed to his cousin 
Asa Bement, to learn the trade of blacksmith, and came with him, 
in 1794, to Brown's Settlement. When of full age he returned 
to Stockbridge, where he married with Lucy Taylor, daughter of 
Ephraim and Sarah (Dewey) Taylor, of Stockbridge, where she 
was born 12 June, 1779. In October, 1807, they came from Stock- 
bridge to Newark Valley, and built a log house where Edward 
Joslin has lately built a house ; and near this place he killed a 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 237 

bear. They moved 23 March, 1808, to a log house which stood 
where Dr. W. J. Burr now lives, and thence to a small framed 
house which now forms a part of the house occupied by Mrs. 
Polly Smith and her sister. He built a framed shop in 1812, with 
a tenement in the south end of it, where Samuel Markram after- 
ward built his house. In 1818 he built where A. C. Chapman 
now lives, a small framed house, which was afterward moved and 
became the beginning of John Butler's house. In this house he 
■dwelt till about 1821 or 1822, when he moved to the farm on the 
north half of lot 144, and lived at first in a small house which 
stood near Bement's mill, and his new house was built a year or 
two later. She died 22 Sept., 1831. He married (2d) with her 
sister, Ann Taylor, widow of Adam Waters, of Stoqjsbridge. He 
died 26 May, 1845. His children were: 

I. Lewis, b at Stockbridge, 25 Jan , 1800 ; m 15 Oct., 1823, with 
Nancy Simons, They settled at Speedsville, where he and his 
brother, Henry Rewey, had a wool-carding and cloth-dressing 
shop. He died there 2 March, 1841. 

II. Sarah, b at Stockbridge, in Sept., 1801 ; married with 
Francis B. Simons. 

III. Oliver, b at Stockbridge, 16 July, 1804; married i Jan., 

1826, with Mary Ann Sears, who died 18 March, 1839, i"^ 'he 

house now occupied by Mrs. Mary E. Hotchkin. He married 

(2d) 8 Nov., 1839, with Emeline Allen, who still lives in Newark 

■Valley. He died 19 Jan., 1883. 

IV. Henry, b at Stockbridge, 9 July, 1,806 ; married with Mary 
Wiltse, daughter of James and Nancy Wiltse, of Caroline, N.Y. 
They dwelt in Speedsville till the latter part of. May, 1844, when 
they moved to one of the western states, and he was still living 
at Plattsville, Grant Co., Wis., as lately as 1884. 

V. Eunice, born at Newark Valley, i Sept., 1808; married with 
Alfred Hyde Ford, of Berkshire. 

VI. Elbridge Gerry, b 4 Dec, 1809, according to Dr. Waldo's 
account-book, or 8 Sept., 18 10, according to the guess-work on 
his heac^tone ; dwelt on the homestead of his father, unmarried, 
and was cruelly murdered on the evening of 25 June, 1879. 

VII. Hannah, b 4 March, 1812; died 30 April, 1840. 

VIII. Emily, b about 1814 ; married with Charles Cook Cor- 
saw. 

IX. Phebe, b 6 Oct., 18 16; died 24 Sept., 1877. 

Edward Edwards, b at Elizabeth, N. J., 20 Jan., 1763, second 
child of the Hon. Timothy and Rhoda (Ogden) Edwards, bought 



238 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

of Lemuel Blackman and Lyman Rawson, a farm on the north 
half of lot 143, on which he dwelt for several years, beginning- 
perhaps about 1807 or 1808. He then moved to Union, and set- 
tled near the mouth of the Nanticoke creek. He joined the 
church 14 June, 1812, and was dismissed to Ithaca 12 Jan., 1823. 
He left Newark Valle}' in April, 1817. His wife was Mary. Ed- 
ward Edwards had children as follows : 

I. John K., a merchant, lived at Union, N. Y., became demented, 
and was tenderly cared for at his own cost, in the Broome County 
Home, until his death. 

n. Robert Ogden, m with Caroline Keeler, and lived and died 
at Chenango Forks, N. Y. 

III. Mary, bap 2 Aug., 1812; married when about forty years- 
old with John McKinney, of Binghamton, N. Y., and after his 
death with Rev. Mr. Ercambrough. 

IV. Timothy Edward, bap 2 Aug,, i8i2 ; married and had one 
daughter. 

V. Edwin, bap 2 Aug., 1812-. 

VI. Henry, bap 2 Aug., 1812; settled at Warrensburgh, N. Y, 

VII. Alexander Hamilton, bap 2 Aug., 1812; died at Ithaca, 
N. Y., when about twenty or twenty-one years old. 

VIII. Charles, bap 2 Aug., 1812; a merchant, lived in Union, 
N. Y., and married with Jane Morse, daughter of Elias Morse, of 
Vestal, N. Y. 

Jonathan Edwards, b at Elizabeth, N. J., 16 Oct., 1764, third 
child of the Hon. Timothy and Rhoda (Ogden) Edwards, married 
at Stockbridge, Mass., with his cousin, Lucy Woodbridge, daugh- 
ter of Jahleel and Lucy (Edwards) Woodbridge, of Stockbridge, 
where she was born 14 April, 1769. They came to Brown's Set- 
tlement about the same time that his brother, Edward Edwards 
came. They dwelt in a log house at what is now called Moore's 
Corners, where Daniel Moore afterwards lived, and where Martin. 
Mead now lives. They went from there to Binghamton, N. Y. 
He joined the church 23 Dec, 18 10, and had nine infant children 
baptized 19 May, 181 1, to wit.: Matthias Ogden, Lucy, Cornelia, 
Jonathan, Timothy, Richard, Rhoda Ogden, Sarah Elizabeth, and 
Joseph Woodbridge. 

Jesse Truesdell, wheelwright, lived on lot 103, a few rods south 
of where Ransom Gleazen now lives. The house stood just south 
of the old well which is still in use on that place. He was a witty 
and companionable little man, fond of the good things of this life 
and would work industriously in his little shop on Spring brook 



TOWN. OF NEWARK, VALLEY. 239 



(which is now owned by Aaron C. Stevens) till he had a wagon 
load of spinning wheels, reels, etc., and then enjoy the pleasures 
of travel, till they were sold. He was born at North Salem, N. 
Y., 23 Dec, 1787, son of Jabish and Bethia (Paddock) Triiesdell; 
married s March, 1812, Dolly Talcott, who was born in Marlbor- 
ough, Conn.. 23 April, 1789, daughter of Elizur and Dorothy 
(Lord) Talcott. She died 17 April, 1856. He died 9 March,. 
1865. Their children were : 

I. Eunice Bethia, b at Owego, 9 Nov., 1812, her mother being 
there on a visit; m with Piatt. 

I.I. Charles Augustus, b 21 April, 1815; died at Kingsbury, 
Laporte Co., Ind., 5 Sept.. 1838, unmarried. 

III. Lucy Ann, b 23 March, 1818: d 10 April, 18 18^ 

IV. Abial, b 17 March, 1819; died 29 March, T819. 

V. Lucy Ann, b 24 April, 1820; m with Lyman F. Chapman, 
and still lives in Newark Valley. 

VI. Mary Elizabeth, b 17 Aug., 1824; died 30 Oct., 1876, un- 
married. 

VII. Sarah Sophia, b 13 July, 1827; m 29 Jan., i860, with Lor- 
ing He wen. She m(2d) with Joseph Simmons, and lives in New- 
ark Valley. 

VIII. George Lord, b 9 March, 1830; died at Candor, N. Y.,. 
18 Feb., 1881. 

IX. Lucius Ambrose, b 13 or 14 Feb., 1833, died. 

The Rev. Jeremiah Osborn, first pastor of the first church in 
Berkshire and Newark Valley, was born in Lenox, Mass., 29 Aug., 
1778, son of Josiah and Hephzibah Osborn. The church and 
society voted to call him, 24 Dec, 1805 ; he accepted the call, 11 
Jan., 1806; the council called to assist, met 18 Feb., 1806, at the 
house of widow Dudley, (now in Berkshire) and examined him. 
They then adjourned to the meeting-house, (now in Newark 
Vallev) 19 Feb., 1806, arid he was then ordained. He was dis- 
missed at his own request, 27 Jan.» 18 19. He removed to Candor, 
N. Y., where he was installed 15 Sept., 18 19, and dismissed 21 Sept., 
1831. He afterward preached in Ohio, till 1839, when he started 
to visit his mother, at Lenox, and on the way, he fell dead, 20- 
July, 1839, 3-t the house of his brother, in Fabius, N. Y., and was 
buried there. His wife was Susanna S. Woodruff, daughter of 
the Rev. Hezekiah North Woodruff, of Scipio, N. Y. She died, 
at Girard, Erie Co., Penn., 24^^ March, 1863, aged seventy-five 
years. Their children were : 

I. Hezekiah Woodruff, b 8 Oct., 1808; m 30 May, 1839, with' 



240 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Evelina Lydia Smith ; was installed pastor of the Congregational 
church at Mesopotamia, Ohio, in Jan., 1840, and died 29 Oct., 1854, 
leaving three children. 

II. Chauncey, b i Aug., 181 1 ; m in 1840, with Susanna Nutting; 
was installed pastor of the Congregational church as Farmington, 
Ohio, in 1842, and died at Dearborn, Mich., 30 Nov., 1856, with- 
out children. 

III. Susanna, b 30 May, 1813 ; m in 1832 with the Rev. J. Alden 
Woodruff, and died in Hartford, Trumbull Co., Ohio, 11 April, 
1845. She had eight children. 

IV. Sarah Alden, b 27 Jan., 1816 ; m in Monroe, Ohio, 16 Sept., 
1834, with Jedediah Chapman, and now resides at South Bend, 
Indiana. She has three children. 

V. Maria Elizabeth, b 12 Sept., 1818; was a teacher for many 
jears m 15 Oct., 1873, with Deacon Gervase Spring, and now 
resides at Claridon, Ohio. 

VI. Clarinda, b at Candor, N. Y., 17 June, 1821 ; m 8 June, 
1859, with Orson Warrener, of Claridon, Ohio, where she now 
lives. 

VII. Josiah Olmstead, b at Candor N. Y., 17 Oct., 1823 ; m 
in April 1846, with Mary Ann Hanchet, and has three children. 

He has been a preacher in the Methodist church from 1853, till 
the fall of 1885, when his voice failed. He resides at McKean, 

Erie Co., Penn. 

Notes to Census Table. — The names in the following table which 
are marked by a star, have already been noticed or located ; the 
others are referred to in the following notes by corresponding 
numbers. We would also add that, there were no unnaturalized 
foreigners in the town, nor any blacks. The total population 
was 655, living within the present limits of the town. 

James Wheeler, and Thankful, his wife, joined the church by 
letter 6 July, 1817, and were dismissed 5 July, 1833, to the new 
church at Berkshire. It is remembered that they were the first 
settlers at Ketchumville. The name does not appear in the 
•census, and possibly their residence was east of the town line. 

1. George Sykes, a native of Suffield, Conn., lived on the east 
side of the road, on the west bank of the creek, on the south half 
of lot 264. He died 26 Oct., 1825, in his 38th year. 

2. Moses Spaulding dwelt on the east side of the way, on the 
north half of lot 58, where his son Lucius Wells Spaulding now 
lives. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 



241 



CENSUS OF NEWARK VALLEY, DECEMBER, 1820. 



Kahbs. 



1. George Sykes 

2. Moses' Spaulding 

3. *Abel Lawrence 

4. Simuel Johnson 

5. *GI-aylord Harmon 

6. Elijah Johnson 

7. *Joel Gaylord 

8. *Sarah Gaylord 

9. Jonathan Beleher 

10. David Bebee 

11. Jacob Conklin , 

12. William Jan^a 

13. *Parley Simons 

14. Alexander MeDaniel 

15. Elihu MoDaniel 

16. Simeon Galpin 

17. George Lane 

18. Nathan A. Gates 

19. Daniel Mead 

•20. Jabez Stevens 

■21. Seth Stevens 

22. John Belden 

•23. Jacob Bemele 

34. * Jesse Ti-uesdell , 

25. *Bnooh 8. Williams 

26. Charles Brown 

•27. Elijah Walter. 

28. Benjamin Walter 

29. Ethan Brown 

30. John Brownl 

SI, Luke McMaster 

32. Tennis Decker 

33. Alexander F. Wiln^arth„ 

34. William Eichardson 

35. John Millen 

36. William Millen 

37. John Bunnel. 

38. John Bunnel, Jr 

39. *Lemuel Blac^ai^, 

40. Zelotes Bobinson 

41. Lyman Legg 

42. Ebenezer Bobbins 

43. Loring Ferguson 

44. *John Harmon 

45. Joseph Freeman 

46. *John Waldo 

47. Lyman Waldo 

48. Eben^er Pierce 

49. *Abranilan Brown 

50. *David S. Farrand 

51. Lyman Barber 

52. Levi Branch 

53. BillTorry 

54., *Joseph Waldo, 2nd 

55. *Peter Wilson 

56. Boswell Livermore 

57. •»Elisha Wilson 

68. Marcus Ford 

59. Stephen WeUs 



No. Males and 


AOBS. . 


No. Females and Aoeb. 


i 


i 


ts 


s 


s 


S 


00 


i 


a 


^ 


a" 


1 


>t 


S 




s 


s 





t^ 


■^ 


to 


3 


fc 


•a 


c 


>: 


("^ 


l>> 


>^ 


s* 





>^ 


p^ 


■>t 


^ 





r-l 


CO 


00 


CO 


S 


rH 


CO 


CO 


ta 




U 


iH 


r-t 


CN 


■d 


ii 


1-1 


(N 


-K 


■a 




5 


$ 


$ 


■s 


g 


1 


s 


5 


s 


i 


•H 


S 


CO 


to 


s 


s 


s 


S 


s 


S 


< 
1 


3 








1 






1 




1 




1 








2 




1 




1 






1 


1 




1 


3 

1 




1 
1 


1 


2 


3 
1 


1 


1 

1 


4 

2 


2 


1 






1 
1 




2 
1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


2 


1 


1 


1 








1 


1 




2 


3 












2 






^ 






1 


1 






1 




3 






r 




1 


1 








1 




4 






1 




1 


1 






1 


1 




1 




1 








3 


1 




1 


1 




1 


1 
1 


1 
1 


1 


1 


1 
2 


1 




1 








1 




2- 




1 


2 


3 


1 






1 




1 






1 




1 


2 


1 






1 










1 




1 


2 








1 




2 






] 




1 




1 




2 


1 




1 






1 




3 


3 












1 


1 








1 


1 
















2 




1 


2 


1 
















1 






1 


1 


2 


1 








1 




1 






1 


2 








1 




3 






1 






1 








1 




2 






1 






3 


1 


1 




1 




1 


1 


2 








1 


2 






1 




1 


2 


1 
2 


1 


1 


1 
2 


1 
















1 






1 


2 


3 






1 

1 




1 




1 
1 


1 
1 


1 


1 
1 
1 


1 


1 






1 

1 








1 




1 


1 
1 


1 


1 






1 
1 




3 
1 


1 


1 

1 
1 


1 


1 


3 
1 
1 


1 




1 


2 

1 










1 


1 




3 
1 


1 


1 




2 








3 


1 


1 




4 


1 












1 


1 




1 






3 


















1 




1 


J 


2 




1 






3 








1 


2 


2 


2 










1 


2. 




2 


1 


1 
2 


1 


2 










3 




1 


1 




1 


3 


1 




1 






1 


2 


1 


1 




2 


2 


3 


1 


1 






2 




2 


1 


1 


3 


2 


1 
1 


1 


2 


1 




1 


1 


2 
2 


1 

1 


1 


3 
2 


1 
















1 






1 


2 


1 










2 


2 


2 
2 


2 


1 
1 


2 
1 


1 












1 




1 








1 




1 








1 


2 




1 




2 


1 
























1 






3 








1 


1 


1 

1 


1 
1 


4 



242 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 



CENSUS OF NEWARK VALLEY, DECEMBER, 1820.— Continued, 



Names. 



60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 
72. 
73. 
74. 
75. 
76. 
77. 
78. 
79. 
80. 
81. 



84. 

85. 

86. 

87. 

88. 

89. 

90. 

91. 

92. 

93. 

94. 

95. 

96. 

97. 

98. 

99. 
100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 
104. 
105. 



Ludns Wells ; 

*A8a Bement 

*Ja8on Hedges 

'Jonathan Hedges 

Absalom Baird 

Joseph Prentice 

♦Uriah Simons 

Dnick Whipple 

Joseph AUen 

John Watkins 

Mial Dean, Jr 

Luke Baird 

Silas Allen 

Adolphus Rerce 

William Baird 

John Allen 

Harvey Marshall 

•Jonas Muzzy 

•Henry Moore 

Elijah Curtis 

•David Hovey 

Elijah Highe 

•Solbflion Williams 

*Ezbon Slosson 

Otis Lincoln 

•Abraham Johnson 

•John Eewey 

Horace Jones 

Oliver WilUams 

John Gould 

Stephen Williams, Jr . . . . 

Henry Williams 

EzeMel Bich 

William Gardner 

John Stedman 

Dexter Parmenter 

Daniel Churchill 

Chester Goodale 

Spencer Spaulding 

Hart Newell 

William Wilbur 

Bichard Perkins 

•Mial Dean 

Alanson Dean. 

Anson Higbe 

Hosea Eldredge 



Totals 110 



No. Maizes akd Aqeb. 



No. Females and Aoes. 



2 
1 

14 1 57 



67 



43 96 I 48 



69 I 38 tl31 



26 



4. Samuel Johnson, dwelt on the east side of the way, on the 
south half of lot 58, in the second house below that of Moses 
Spaulding. [See Early Households of Berkshire, for an account of 
his household.] 

6. Elijah Johnson, son of Samuel Johnson, lived in a log house, 
in the same yard with his father. [See Early Households of 
Berkshire.] 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 243 

9. Jonathan Belcher, son of Joseph Belcher, dwelt on the west 
end of lot 23, where Hiram Holden now lives. [See Early 
Households of Berkshire] 

10. David Beebe, had lately sold his farm to Jonathan Belcher, 
.and was temporarily staying in a small house, which stood west 
•of the road near the north line of the Wade farm. 

11. Jacob Conklin, had lately come from Orange county, and 
lived on the hill-side east of the road, on the south part of lot 23, 
where no house remains. In 1822 he built the house now oc- 
cupied by William Wade. 

12. William T. Jayne. [See later families of Richford.] 

14. Alexander McDaniel, lived on the west end of lot 20, the 
S. W. corner of Newark Valley, and had built a saw-mill there 
on the West Owego creek, which then cut about seventy thou- 
.sand feet of lumber each year. Soon after that time he moved 
to Candor, settling on lot 19, where Henry Richardson now 
lives; where he died 6 Jan., 1840, aged 70 years, 8 months, 
and 21 days, according to his ^rave stone at West Newark, 
which has his name as " McDonel." 

15. Elihu McDaniel lived also on lot 20. 

16. Simeon Galpin, lived on the N. W. quarter of lot 60, east 
side of the creek road, just north of that road which crosses the 
creek to Weltonville, where Henry Blewer now lives. He owned 
no land, but had abundance of pine timber. He crossed the 
creek on a foot bridge, near the site of Blewer's mill. In 1812 a 
Mr. Sullivan, also a squatter, lived in the next house below him. 

17. George Lane, lived north of Simeon Galpin, probably on 
lot 61. 

18. Nathan A. Gates, lived east of the road, on the S. W. quar- 
ter of lot 60, where Charles Blewer now lives. He was son of 
Nathan Gates who settled in Candor. He probably settled here 
in 1817, " the year after the cold summer." He aftef wards moved 
to Penn Yari, N. Y., where he died about Feb., i860. His only 
child is the wife of Cornelius Hover. 

19. Daniel Mead, lived on the east side of the road, on lot lob. 

20. Jabez Stevens and wife, each over fofty-five years old, 
were living on the southeast quarter of lot 65, where Henry Zim- 
mer afterward dwelt for many years. He probably came from 
Knox, N. Y., in 1819, with his son, Seth Stevens. He was not 
of sound mind, and after the death of his son Seth, he went West 
with his wife and other children. His son Eiisha married with 
Lucretia Higbe, youngest child of Elijah Higbe. 



244 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

21. Seth Stevens, son of Jabez Stevens, above, was the first 
one of the settlers from Albany and Schoharie counties to come 
into the "east settlement" in Newark Valley. He left Knox, 
N. Y., in a sleigh, 19 March, 1819, the day on which Van Alstine 
was hung at Schoharie, and settled in the house at the corner of 
the roads on lot 56, which was bnilt and occupied by Capt. Eli- 
sha Hooper, and was afterward kept as a public house for many 
years, by Joseph Cookson. His land was the south part of lot 
65, and on this, at the top of the hill, he had cleared a few acres, 
had a cellar dug and partly stoned, and timber for the frame of 
a house, when, about the first of October, 1820, he became ill, 
and died about the 15th of October, 1821. His wife and two 
young children went back to live with her parents, and his clear- 
ing was covered with a thick growth of thrifty young white pine 
trees, which were not cleared off till after 1840. Stevens and his 
father were the only householders living, in 1820, on the road 
that leads east from G. B. Sutton's, within the present town of 
Newark Valley. 

22. John Belden lived in a log house on the southeast corner of 
lot 102, very near the remains of a small house in which Joel 
Shaw once lived. He left town in a few years, and little is known 
of his family. One of his children was born 28 April, 1820. 

23. Jacob Remele, a shoemaker, lived on the east bank of the 
creek, south of Silk street, in the plank house which Solomon 
Williams built, east of the site of the grist-mill, and which was- 
burned 5 Jan., 1871, then the home of Sarah Jones and her sister, 
Susanna Jones. He was son of Jacob Remele, of Stockbridge, 
Mass., where he was baptized 6 July, 1785. .It is not known 
when he left town, nor to what place he went. One of his chil- 
dren was born 25 Jan., 1814; one was drowned 10 May, 181 5, (a 
young girl having tried to cross the creek on a single pole with 
the child on her back); two were pupils, in the summer of 1818, 
in the school at the head of Silk street ; another was born lo 
Nov., 1820 ; while the census seems to show two sons and three 
daughters, all under ten years of age, in Dec, 1820, yet no one 
has yet been found to remember any name of wife or child. 

26. Charles Brown lived on the west side of the road, on the 
northwest quarter of lot 140, a little north of the end of the hill 
road. He died there, 23 July, 1827, aged 46 years. His wife, 
Sally S. Brown, died there 22 May, 1826, aged 43 years. It is. 
said that he was not akin to the Browns who dwelt further up 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 245 

the creek. They had two sons and a daughter, who went west 
after their parents died. 

27. Elijah Walter lived on the east side of the road, on lot i40r 
northwest quarter, where Elton Cortright now dwells. He had 
formerly lived in Norfolk, Conn. He married with Mary Scran- 
ton Field. He was a deacon of the Congregational church of 
West Newark. He died 10 Nov., 1836, aged 79. She died 29- 
Dec, 1841, aged 78 years. 

28. Benjamin Walter lived on' the west side of the road, a 
little above his father, Elijah Walter, on the same lot.. He mar- ' 
ried with Almira Brown, daughter of John Brown. She died 
4 Jan., 1844, in her 47th year. He married (2d) with Repina 
Rich, daughter of Dav id Rich , of Caroline. She died 22 March^ 
1849, aged 54 years. He married (3d) 17 July, 1851, with Nancy 
Seymour, who was born at Whitney's Point,^N. Y., 7 April, 1803^ 
daughter of John and Sarah (Stoddard) Seymour. Previous to- 
his third marriage he removed to the village of Newark Valley; 
and in 1866, went to Pulkton, Ottawa Co., Mich., where he died 
22 Feb., 1868, in his 73d year. He was a man of more than 
ordinary intelligence, with piety of such a high order that no- 
church could be found sufficiently sound on the questions of 
slavery and temperance, to warrant him in becoming one of its 
members. He had by his first wife one daughter, Mary. 

29. Ethan Brown lived on lot 141, on the west side of the road^ 
where Joshua Carpenter now lives. He was born about 1791^ 
son of John Brown. He married with Nancy M. Wilmarth^ 
daughter of Benjamin and Susanna (Capron) Wilmarth. She 
died I May, 1868, aged 79 years ; he died 30 May, 1873, aged 82 
years. Their children were: John, George,- Maria, Susan,. 
Caroline. 

30. John Brown lived on the west side of the road a little 
above his son John Brown, and on the same lot. He came there 
from Stockbridge about 1818, with his wife Esther and a few of 
his fourteen children. His wife died on that place. He was a 
stone-cuttgr, and in the latter part of his life, noi: always quite 
sound mentally, spent much of his time away from home. He is- 
said to have died at Palmyra, N. Y., where he was cutting stone 
to be used in building locks on the Erie canal, and was buried 
there by the Free Masons, of which order he was an enthusiastic 
member ; and it is further said that they protected his grave by 
an iron railing. Several of his children died in New England-,, 
some married and remained there ; among others were: 



246 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Ethan, mentioned above, No. 29. John. 
Almira, m with Benjaniin Walter, No. 28. 
Henrietta, the youngest, b 25 June, 1806, m with Horace F 
ardson, and died in Candor, 22 May, 1881. 

31. Luife McMaster, a laborer, married with Lucinda Willi; 
a half-sister of Enoch Slosson Williams, and had several child 
There is no evidence yet found that he ever owned a home : 
his house at this time has not been identified, though he prob 
worked for one of the Browns, and lived in one of their 
houses. A few years later he lived in the old house of Enoc 
Williams, on top of the hill, south of the present home of Fr 

lin G. Dean. Sonie of his children were born, , 8 A 

1820, which probably died 3'oung; , 15 Sept., 1821, and 

may have been Miriam, who is said to have died of whoop 
■cough, about 1828 or 1829. 

32. Teunis Declsejf lived on the east side of the road, 01 
180, about twenty rods north of where William Watkins 
lives. He was a blacksmith, and probably came there al 
1818. He married with Susanna (Capron) Wilmarth, wido 
Benjamin Wilmarth, and daughter of Joseph and Sarah (Foi 
Capron, of Attleborough, Mass., where she was born 29 J 
1765. He died 18 Dec, 1839, '" his 74th year. She died 6 ( 
1852. 

33. Alexander Foster Wilmarth lived in the same framed hi 
-^'ith his mother and step-father, Teunis Decker, on lot 180. 1 

had built this house since they settled on the lot in 18 16, w 
had then no building except a log cabin which had been bull 
a shop for " shingle- weaving." He was born at Stockbri 
Mass., 4 Sept., r793, son of Benjamin and Susanna (Capron) 
marth, and married with Electa Tracy. He died 5 May, i 
His children were : 

I. James OtiSj b 2 Nov., 1820, died i. July, 1821. 

n. Nancy M., b 31 Dec, 1821, m with William Watkins, 
■still lives on her father's homestead .^Mr. Wilmarth had two sis 
Susanna, who m with Charles DeLand, a clergyman of the ] 
tist church, and settled at Lodi, N. Y., and Nancy M., who 
ried with Ethan Brown, and his elder half-brother, Benja 
afterward lived in Newark Valley. 

34. William Richardson lived on the west side of the roac 
lot 181, where Monroe Barrett now lives. He was born in A 
borough, Mass., 6 April, 1770, son of Vinton and Abigail ( W 
Richardson ; not as stated in, the Richardson memorial, p. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 247 

He married 23 March; 1797, with Milla Capron, who was born in 
Attleborough, 23 April, 1779, daughter of Joseph and Sarah 
(Foster) Capron. See the Capron Genealogy, p. 135. Her name 
was, perhaps, a contraction of Melicent. She died i Nov., 1848, 
in her 70th year. He died 17 Sept., 1861, aged 91 years and 5 
months. Their children were all born in Attleborough, except 
the youngest. 

I. William, b 4 June, 1798, ; died 13 July, 1854. 

II. Milla Capron, b 29 Nov., 1799, m with William Solomon 
Lawrence, and died 25 Jan., 1835. One of her daughters, Mrs. 
D. J. Borthwick, still resides in West Newark. 

III. Elias, b 3 March, 1802 ; is still living. 

IV. Horace, b 22 Nov., 1803; m with Henrietta Brown, 
daughter of John Brown, and still lives in the east border of Can- 
dor, in sight of his father's homestead. His wife died 22 May, 
1881. 

V. Fanny, b 22 May, 1807. 

VI. Herbert, b 20 March, 181 1 ; m 13 Feb., 1838, with Esther 
Waldo. He died 28 Dec, 1882. His son, Fred Waldo Richard- 
son, now lives in the village of Newark Valley. 

VII. Hannah Maria, b 13 Sept., 1813; m with George Fred- 
erick Waldo, of Waverly, N. Y. 

VIII. Sarah Jane, b 8 June, 1817. 

IX. Nancy Cap.ron, b 6 Oct., 1820; m with Theodore Jenks, 
and died 8 Oct., 1865. 

35. John Millen lived on the east side of the road, on the 
northwest quarter of lot 221, about ten rods south of where 
Elisha Millen now lives. It is said that he came from Stock- 
bridge, Mass. He died n March, 1830, aged 77 years. He mar- 
ried with Sarah , who died 30 Dec, 1838, aged 72 years. 

They had children : 

I. William, b about 1791. See below. II. James. 

III. Cynthia, mwith Levi Cortright. 

IV. Rachel, m with Lodawick Hover. 

36. William Millen lived on the east side of the road, on lot 
■221, where Elisha Millen now lives, He was a son of John Mil- 
len, above. He died 28 Aug., 1862, aged 71 years. His wife 
died 25 July, 1865, aged 66 years. 

40. Zelotes Robinson, attended the grist-mill, and lived east of 
it, on the north side of the road which led to the mill. His only 
child was a daughter who married and went west. 

41. Lyman Legg lived on the west side of the road, on lot 261, 

17* 



248 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

very near the northwest corner of the lot and of the town. The 
water for the mill was taken out of the creek on his land. His 
house was very near the bank of the creek. He was a son of 
Reuben Legg, and a grandson of David Legg. Hem with Betsey 
Osborn, daughter of Samuel Osborn. He died there and was 
buried in the cemetery on the next farm above. One of his chil- 
dren, probably the third son was born 3 July, 1820. 

37. John Bunnel lived on the west side of the way, on the south- 
west quarter of lot 260, where Cornelius Ackerman now lives.. 
He had first settled in the Park Settlement, in the southeast cor- 
ner of Candor, and remained there till after the birth of his oldest 
son. He and his wife, Hannah, were constituent members of the 
"Baptist church of West Owego Creek,'' i May 1802, now in> 
Candor, and he was elected its first deacon. He was a shoe- 
maker, farmer, and a very successful hunter and trapper of wolves 
and bears. He caught one bear and several wolves after 1820. 
He died 15 Jan., 1840, in his 68th year. She died 7 Nov., 1837, in 
her 6oth year. The following list of their children may not be 
complete. 

I. Isaac, b at Park Settlement, in Candor, N. Y. See census 
of Berkshire, note 18. 

II. John. See below, note 38. 

III. Henry, still living in Berkshire. 

IV. Anna, had medicine from Dr. Waldo, 5 Aug., 18 12. 

V. James, b u Sept. i8o8 ; died 22 May 1809. 

VI. Gershom, b 9 May, 1810 ; died, date not stated. 

VII. Jesse, b 17 Feb., 181 1 ; died 17 April, 181 1. 

VIII. David, may have been born 4 Aug., 1812. 

IX. Cornelia, b 22 March, 1817; died i July, 1817. 

X. William, b about 1818. 

XI. Benajah, b about 1820. 

38. John Bunnell, Jr., lived on the same lot with his father, on 
the hill-side about eighty rods east of the road where no house' 
stands now. One of his children was born 21, March, 1821. 

42. Ebenezer Robins, came from Peru, Mass., in Nov., 1812,. 
and, in Dec, 1812, settled on lot 182, where his son Harlow Rob- 
bins succeeded him, and his granddaughter, Mrs. Hinsdale now 
lives. 

43. Loring Ferguson, came from Peru, Mass., as early as the 
spring of 18 12, and began to work for John Bement, 6 March, 
1812. He settled in a log house which he built near the centre of 
fifty acres on the northeast corner of lot 179. A few yearsUater 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 249 

he moved to Berkshire, and lived on the west end of Dr. Waldo's 
farm, on Strong brook, where he dwelt for six years, then moved 
to the west side of Wilson creek, in the south part of Berkshire. 
He was born in Blandford, Mass., 15 Feb., 1787, son of John and 
Sarah (Knox) Ferguson. His parents came with him to Newark 
Valley, and his mother died here 19 April, 1817. Same year later 
his father returned to Blandford, and died there. After getting 
his parents well settled he returned to Peru, and there married 
13 Oct., 1813, with Laura Cone, whom he brought to Newark 
Valley. He died in Berkshire, 20 Nov., 1838. His widow returned 
to New England in 1840, and died 2 June, i860, at the house of 
her youngest daughter, in Columbia, Conn. His children, all born 
in Newark Valley were : • 

I. Chauncey Ackley, b 12 June, 181 5; moved to Wisconsin, 
where he enlisted, but taking the measles, he died 20 Jan., 1862, 
without having left the state for active service. 

II. Selden Knox, b 8 May, 1817; died of consumption at Hins- 
dale, Mass., 14 June, 1857. 

III. Olive Melissa, b i June, 1820; died of gangrene, at Peru, 
Mass., 22 May, 1866. 

IV. Lansing Spencer, b 3 June, 1822 ; resides at Middlefield, 
Mass. 

V. Asenath Caroline, b 21 Aug., 1826. 

45. Joseph Freeman. His home in Dec, 1820 has not been 
ascertained. See Berkshire, 1802. 

47. Lyman Waldo, brother of John Waldo, lived in the same 
neighborhood, and built the first house east of the 'Wilson creek, 
on the south side of the Ketchumville road. ' He came from Bur- 
lington, N. Y., about 18 1 7, and finally moved to Portage, N. Y., 
where he died 23 July, 1865, aged 91 years and 15 days: 

48. Ebenezer Pierce lived on lot 223, where S. W. Ames now 
dwells. 

51. Lyman Barber lived east of the present road, and west of 
the old road, in the house which had been lately vacated by the 
Rev. Jei;emiah Osborn, on lot 264, near the north line of the 
town^' 

52. Levi Branch lived on lot 224, on the west side of the way, 
where D. H. Miller now dwells. 

53. Bill Torry lived in a small house on the same lot, east of 
the way, where Capt. E. N. Chapman afterward built his house, 
[See Early Families of Berkshire.] 

56. Roswell Livermore lived in a log house, on lot 217, on the 



250 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

east bank of the creek, north of the road where it turns to cross 
the creek. 

58. Marcus Ford lived in the house with Elisha Wilson. He 
was born 29 March, 1793 ; was ordained 13 Dec,' 1820, and on 
that day a portion of the census of Newark Valley was taken. 

59. Stephen Wells lived south of Wil?on creek," and west of 
the road, in the house which his son, Beriah Wells, had built a 
few years before. 

60. Lucius Wells lived in the same house with his father, 
Stephen Wells. 

64. Absalom Baird lived on the north side of the east and west 
road, at Moore's Corner, where Martin Mead now lives. 

65. Joseph Prentice lived on lot 183, east side of the way, 
■where Henderson now lives. 

67. Duick Whipple lived on the south part of lot 223, on the 
old road, since discontinued, on top of the hill, north of where 
William Reeves now lives. The old barn still stands near his 
dwelling-place, but the house was long since moved away. 

68. Joseph Allen lived on the first road that leads to the north, 
above where William Reeves lives, and about a quarter of a mile 
from the parting of the roads. 

69. John Watkins lived on lot 219, within the corner of the 
road where it bends to the northwest, leading to the West 
Owego creek. 

70. Mial Dean, Jr., lived in the same house with John Watkins, 
and was improving a place on the southwest side of the road, at 
or near the place where Lyman Freeland now dwells. 

71. Luke Baird lived on the hill, on a private road, north of 
the place lately owed by Elbridge Barber, and his son, Darius 
Barber. 

72. Silas Allen lived in a log house, a little above the place 
lately owned by the Barbers, and on the south side of the road. 

73. Adolphus Pierce lived in the field, about forty rods north- 
west from Luke Baird's, and between his place and that of Mial 
Dean, Jr. 

74. William Baird lived on the road above Joseph Allen, and 
not far from where Jireh Councilman now lives. 

75. John Allen lived on the north side of the road where now 
stands the Barber house, which was built by Elder Snyder. 

76. Harvey Marshall lived in a log house on the farm of John 
Watkins, and northwest of where Watkins lived. He soon 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 251 

moved to Spencer with his wife and only child, which was not 
born till after the census was taken. 

79. Elijah Curtis lived on the north half of lot 143, on the west 
side of Whig- street. 

81. Elijah Higbe lived .on the west side of Whig street where 
Egbert Bement now lives. His grave-stone in Hope cemetery 
shows the date of his death as 13 Sept., 1820, but the census 
proves that he was alive in Dec, 1820, and he probably died 13, 
Sept., 1 82 1. 

84. Otis Lincoln lived in the " Old Tavern," which he kept 
nearly 20 years, where the new brick school-house is now taking 
form. 

87. Horace Jones lived in a small 'framed house, which stood 
on the west side of the way, and now, on its original site, forms 
part of the dwelling house of Mrs. Polly Smith. 

88. Oliver Williams, probably lived in the house with his father, 
where the Rev. Jay Clizbe has since lived, and his parents were 
counted as of his family. 

89. John Gould lived on the west side of the way, about where 
E. G. ribbitts now lives. The house was a small one built for a 
mitten shop by the Williams Brothers. 

90. Stephen Williams, Jr., lived on the west side of the way, in 
the first house north of Silk street. 

91. Henry Williams lived on the south side of Silk street, where 
N. P. Chapman now lives. 

92. Ezekiel Rich lived in the south or old part of the house 
now occupied by Mrs. Jane Wells and her children. See later 
families of Richford. 

93. William Gardner lived on the east side of the road, where 
P P. Moses built the house now occupied by Henry Sprague. 

94. John Stedman lived on the east side of the road, where W, 
A. Noble and J. T. Noble now dwell. See later families of 
Richford. ' 

95. Dexter Parmenter (otherwise written Palmeter) lived in a 
small hopse which stood on the west side of the way, about mid- 
way between Stedman's house and that ot Daniel Churchill. 

96. Daniel Churchill lived on the east side of the way, on the 
gravelly knoll, a few rods north of the cemetery. 

97. Chester Goodale lived in a log house where Ephraim Nixon 
now dwells, on the .west side of the way. 

98. Spencer Spaulding lived on the west side of the way, where 
William T. Loring afterwards built his brick house. 



252 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

99. Hart Newell lived on the east side of the way, on the south 
half of lot 63, where Lyman Barber afterward lived. 

100. William Wilbur lived, in a log house with a framed lean-to 
which stood where the south end of the wing of W. S. Smith's 
farm house now stands, on the north' half of lot 63, east of the way. 

loi. Richard Perkins lived on the south border of lot 98, west 
of Owego street, and nortii of the road that leads to Knapp's. 

103. Alanson Dean lived on the east side of the road, just on 
the line of lots 63 and 98, in the same house with his father. 

104. Anson Higbe lived on the west side of the way, opposite 
the road to Union, on the south half of lot 98, where his grand- 
son, George Byron Sutton, now dwells. 

•105. Hosea Eldredge lived in a log house, on the north side of 
the Ketchumville road, east of the Wilson creek road, where 
George Andrews once lived, and later his brother, Luther An- 
drews, on lot 266. He was born at Ashford, Conn., 4 June, 1783, 
son of Hezekiah and Elizabeth (Whiton) Eldredge : removed 
when sixteen years old to Salisbury, Conn., where he m 6 Oct., 
i8p5, with Cyrene Collins, who was born there 2 Feb., 1783. 
They left Salisbury about the beginning of 181 1. and dwelt at 
Edmeston or the adjoining town of Plainfield, N. Y., till early in 
181S, when they settled on the place described above. Thev 
joined the church by letter, 3 Oct., 1819, and were dismissed to 
Ithaca, N. Y., 16 Oct. 1835. He died 31 March, 1837. She died 
S May, 1838. They had three children : 

I. Edward Hezekiah, b 11 Sept., 1806; a physician ; m with 
Marcia Belinda Orven, and m (2d) 19 Oct , 1857, with Mary 
Sophia Ball. 

II. Mary Abigail, b 9 Oct., 1809. 

III. Horace Newton, b in Plainfield, N. Y., 4 June, 1812. 
Early Highways.— 'i>io record has been found of the formal or 

official laying out of the first highway through the valley, on the 
east side of the creek from the place now owned by G. B. Sut- 
ton, to the north line of Berkshire, now known as Owego street, 
south of the Green; and Berkshire street, north of it. For several 
years this road was used on the east side of the creek, across lots 
217, 224, and the south half of 257, between the creek and where 
the railway now runs, but after good bridges were made across 
the creek the road on the west side took the whole travel, and 
the other was discontinued. Another change has been made 
above the village of Newark Valley, where the road till after 
1846 crossed the low swampy land between the hill and the creek. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 253 

It was then worked along the base of the hill, by cutting out and 
throwing down enough of the rock to form the roadbed. This 
improved road was begun on the first day of June, and finished 
on the third da\' of July. The year is not positively remembered, 
but it was about 1848. It was made by Otis Lincoln. Charles 
Baldwin, who then worked for him, claims to have been the first 
man to jump into the water where it was three feet deep, to 
begin the work, and his courage was sharpened by a silver dollar 
and an extra drink of whiskey. 

Soon after Wilson's mill was built, a road was laid from the 
place now owned by Edwin Smith, across the creek to " Moore's 
corner," thence up the Muzzy brook, and over the hill to the 
Jenks Settlement, so that the people there might have a road to 
the grist-mill. Of this road no survey has been fftund. This 
road went nearly northwest to the top of the hill, at the place 
now owned by Fred W. Richardson,, then down the hill to the 
■west creek. 

Of Whig street, the following tells the story : 
■" 1801, April i6th. 

The survey of a road ascertained as the following manner, viz.: 

Beginning on the road leading from the village of Owego to 
Brown's Settlement at a stake an stones standing in the west line 
of said road near Enoch Slosson's barn, from thence north-west 
36 rods to a stake and st6nes on the west bank of the creek, 
thence north 45' east to a maple staddle near Lyman Rawson's 
well, thence the same course to a stake and stones, near the house 
of Henry Moor, thence the same direction until it intersects the 
road leading to Jenks Settlement. Certified by 

John FreeMan, 
Henry Moor. 

On the seventh of July, 1803, a road measuring 1,138 rods, or 
eighteen rods more than three miles and a half long, with twenty- 
four different courses, was laid from " a marked tree south of 
Daniel Carpenter's house," near the center of lot 302, in Berk- 
shire, " to intersect the road laid from Jenks Settlement, to Wil- 
son's Mills." This road ended near the school-house, east of the 
Hotchkin house, now occupied by Mr. Reeves, but instead of 
■coming down along the brook where the road now runs, by the 
farm of Stephen W. Ames, it came over the top of the hill far to 
the west of his house. 

" Survey of a road laid by the commissioners, in and for the 
town of Tioga, Feb. i8th, 1804. 

" Beginning on the division line between Joseph Brown and 
Dan'l Churchill, 3d line being the centre of the road ; thence W. 



254 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

6"] chains ; thence N. 22° W., 10 chains; thence N. 65° W., 6^ 
chains; thence N. 80° W., 16J chains; thence N. 37° W., 15. 
chains ; thence N. 70° W., 12 chains ; thence S. 87° W., 4^ chains ; 
thence — 40° W., 5 chains ; thence N. 66° W., 15 chains ; thence 
N. 78° W., 5 chains ; thence S. 85° W., 5 chains; thence S. 70°^ 
W., 10 chains; thence N. 70° W., 5 chains; thence N. 81° W"., 
10 chains; thence S. 75° W., I2-J chains 10 the West Owego 
Creek. 

Certified by Abraham Brown, 

Lemuel Brown." 

This road was probably never opened. Its starting point wa& 
at the south line of the farm now owned by the family of the late 
Frederick T. Wells, and passed directlj' over the hill on which 
Royal R. Williams lives, on the line between lots 98 and 103. The 
principal work to be done on it for many years, was in hauling; 
logs and wood, all of which naturally passed twenty rods further 
south through the woods, and went around the hill on level 
ground, where the road was afterward laid. The record of the 
present road, known as Hosford street, went out of existence 
when the town records of Newark Valley were burned., 

" A description of Roads laid by the Commissioners in and for 
the town of Tioga, 1805. 

" Also a road Beginning at a stake and stones standing North 
of Asa Bement's house, on the east side of the road leading 
through Brown's Settlement, thence North 88 degrees east 12 
chains ; thence North 72 degrees east, 29 chains & 75 links ; thence 
North 82 degrees east, 15 chains and twenty links, to a Beach 
tree marked E. H., standing on the farm of Jonathan Hedges." 

Certified by Asa Leonard, | Comni'rs 

Samuel Brown, ( rj. P 

) Highway. 

Many years passed before any settlement was made in that part 
of the town, east of Mr. Hedges, and not till after 1820 was the 
road opened from that road north, up the Wilson creek. 

In the same certificate with the foregoing, was the survey of a 
road measuring a trifle over five and six-tenths miles, " beginning 
at a Birch tree standing in the east line of lot No. 160, in the 
Nanticoke township," and running " to the Road leading through 
Brown's Settlement," opposite the place now owned by G. B, 
Sutton. 

"Survey of a road leading from Henry Williams' to Daniel 
Cortwrect's, on West Owego creek, laid and surveyed April 11, 
1814. Beginning on the Creek road, one rod north of Henry Will- 
iams' north line, runing west 18 chains in such manner as will take 
three rods wide on Stephen Williams' land, and one rod wide 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 255 

on said Henry Williams' land, thence north 69 degrees west, 4, 
chains and 30 links, thence north 74°, west 7 chains and 75, 
links," etc. This measurement brings the road upon the west 
bank of the Spring .brook, and the survey continues through 
twenty-two additional courses, a distance of seven hundred 
and twenty rods^ " to intersect the road on the West Owe- 
go." This makes the whole distance, as then measured, a few 
feet more than two and five-eighths miles. THe east end of 
this road received the name of Silk street, about. 1840, from the 
fact that Sylvanus Merchant, who lived on it, kept silk worms 
for several years. This road was laid b}' John Waldo and Abra- 
ham Brown, the highway commissioners of the town of' Berk- 
shire, and it seems to have been the last road laid |)efore the 
town of Westville, now Newark Valley, was set off from Berk- 
shire. 

Organization. — The town of Westville, authorized by the leg- 
islature, 12 April, 1823, was organized by a meeting of theinhab- 
itants at the house of Otis Lincoln, 2 March, 1824, and the elec- 
tion of a full board of town officers, whose names, except the 
minor officers, have already been printed in the History of Four 
Counties, p. 147. The name of the town was changed by act of 
the legislature, 24 March, 1824, to Newark. The destruction of 
all town records by fire. 16 Oct., 1879, gives a special impor- 
tance, historically, to anything that may be recovered, in relation 
to the early history of the town. The early custom was to 
adjourn the town meeting to the regular day for holding it in 
the next year, which led the clerk to call it an adjourned meet- 
ing, rather than the annual meeting. The following is a copy of 
the record made by the clerk at the second town meeting, it 
being the first held after the town took the name of Newark, 
The spelling of two or three names only has been changed to 
conform to the family usage: 

"At an adjourned meeting of the inhabitants of the town of 
Newark, held March i, 1825, at the house of Otis Lincoln in 
said town, Anson Higbe in the chair— The following officers were 
elected to 6ffice: 

Solomon Williams, Supervisor. 
Beriah Wells, Town Clerk. 

John Waldo, Francis Armstrong, Peter Moore, Assessors. 
Benjamin Wilmarth, Abraham Brown, Jonathan Belcher, Com- 
missioners of Highways. 

Ebenezer Pierce, Peter Wilson, Overseers of the Poor. 
William Slosson, Collector; William Slosson, Constable. 



256 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Francis Armstrong, William Richardson, Lyman Waldo, Com- 
missioners of Common Sdhools. 

George Williams, Elijah Wilson, Benjamin Walter, Inspectors 
of Common Schools. 

Overseers of Highways, District No. i, Francis Armstrong; 
No. 2, John Rewey ; No. 3, Levi Smith ; No. 4, John Harmon ; 
No. 5, Ebenezer Robbins ; No. 6, John Waldo; No. 7, James 
Wheeler; No. 8, Reuben Chittenden; No. 9, Simeon Galpin. 

Fence Viewers — Voted that there be six fence viewers, Moses 
Spaulding, Alan.son Dean, Charles Brown, Lyman Legg, Abra- 
ham Hotchkin, Denick Whipple. 

Josiali Benjamin, sealer of weights and measures. 

Voted that the commissioners and inspectors of common schools 
-for the year 1824, and the present year be allowed the compen- 
sation which the law prescribes for their services. 

Voted, that the sum of seven dollars and twentv-five cents be 
paid Anson Higbe out of the funds belonging to the town for 
money expended on the highways some years past. 

Voted, double the sum of school money which we receive from 
the state, be raised by the town. 

Voted, that this town raise twelve dollars for the purpose of 
procuring the standard weights and measures. 

Voted, that this meeting adjourn to the first Tuesday of March 
next at ten o'clock A. M., at this place." 

The name of the town, changed 17 April, 1862, to Newark Val- 
ley, should once more be changed to Arkley, that it might be 
•distinctive, and never again be confounded with Newark, N. J., 
Newark in Wayne Co., N. Y., or with Cherry Valley, N. Y. 

BUSINESS CENTERS 

Newark Valley.— While the population of. Brown's Settle- 
ment was confined to the valley, the social center was naturally 
the business center. The church was built on lot 257, near the 
home of Mrs. Beulah Brown ; and the first store was not far away, 
near the north part of lot 217, little more than the width of a sin- 
gle lot intervening. The first road made to accommodate the 
early settlers on the Wilson creek, in the New Connecticut dis- 
trict, came down the steep east hill-side, from northeast to south- 
west, coming out at the east end of the road which crosses the 
•creek in front of the house of Rodney Ball. Another road, almost 
as hard to travel, came down the west hill, connecting with the 
valley road near the center of lot 224, and this is still open, but 
very little used. 

When the hills on each side began to be settled, the roads of 
necessity followed the lateral streams or valleys, and business be- 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 257 

gan to increase near the points where they entered the valley, 
and soon separate business centers were formed where the vil- 
lages of Berkshire and Newark Valley now stand, and begani to 
force social life and interest to form about the same centers, and 
led to the division of the town ; but possibly the conservative pow- 
ers of Calvinism might have kept the church united at the old 
■center till the present day, if some teachers of a new faith and 
practice had not begun to occupy the new fields and grow up 
with the villages, thereby stimulating the "standing order," as 
they were formerly called in Connecticut, to arouse themselves 
to meet the new condition of affairs. 

Here ends the historical matter for Newark Valley furnished 
by D. Williams Patterson; and we add the folio wing^additional 
facts: 

The village is a neat, thriving; even handsome community of 
about 80Q souls. It has some dozen or more stores of various 
kinds, a large tannery, two steam saw-mills, grist-mill, and the 
usual complement of mechanics' shops. 

Ketchumville is a small post-village located in the north- 
eastern corner of the town. 

Jenksville is a small post-village located in the northwestern 
part of the town, on the west branch of Owego creek. This 
village was settled as early as 1797. Michael Jenks built a saw- 
mill in 1803, and a grist-mill in 1814. 

West Newark, a small settlement about tVito miles south of 
Jenksville, containing a postoffice. 

New Connecticut is a small settlement in the northern part 
of the town. 

Davidge, Landfield & Co.'s Tannery. — From an early date the 
site of this firm's building has been used for tanning purposes ; 
first for tanning deerskins, etc., and their manufacture into gloves, 
mittens and articles of clothing. The property, passed through 
several hands,, and the buildings havcv been twice destroyed by 
fire. In 1865 George H. Allison, John Davidge and Jerome B. 
Landfield purchased the property, and commenced business 
■xmder the firm name of Allison, Davidge & Co. They continued 
the business till 1867, when Allison became sole owner. In 1868, 
however, Davidge, Landfield &Co. bought the property, and no 
change has since been made, except to transfer Mr. Davidge's 
interest to his heirs after his death. The tannery has 132 vats, 
and turns out about 50,000 sides of sole leather per year, giving 



258 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

employment to about forty hands. George F. Sherwood is sup- 
erintendent. 

Lucius E. Williams' Saw-mill was built by Moore, Cargiil & Co, 
in the autumn of 1867, and Mr. Williams became sole owner in 
August, 1886. The mill is operated by steam-power, is supplied 
with a circular saw, planer, matcher, etc., and has the capacity 
for cutting 3,000,000 feet of lumber per year. 

The Jenksville Steam Mills were built in 1879, by Daniel L. 
Jenks, for sawing lumber and threshing grain. In the fall of 
1882 the steam grist-mill was built by Jenks & Nixon. In 18 
Charles D. Nixon bought of Jenks his interest in the mills and the 
the farm property connected with them, and remodeled and im- 
proved the saw-rnili, added a planing-mill, and a hay- press and 
cider-mill, all of which are run by steam-power. The grist-mill 
has three runs of stones, and a specialty is made of feed and buck- 
wheat grinding. The saw- mill has a capacity for io.odo feet in 
twelve hours. The management of the mills and the supervision 
of the farm is under the personal direction of Mr. Nixon, who 
carries on the latter according to the most advanced and scien- 
tific methods, and it is known asa model farm for productiveness. 
Jenksville Custom Grist- Mill was huilt in 1814, by Michael Jenks,. 
for James Pumpelly, and was deeded by the latter to Daniel 
Boughton. The next proprietor was Chester Johnson, who sold 
to Alfred Smith, in February, 1856. Mr. Smith disposed of the 
property to Egbert Crans, in the spring of i860, but in the fall of 
1861, Crans deeded the property back to Mr. Smith, who then 
rebuilt the saw-mill on a larger and more improved plan. In the 
fall of 1866, Mr. Smith again disposed of the property ; this time 
to Peter S. Dunning, who lost it by mortgage foreclosure. It was 
bid off by Hiram Payne, who deeded it to the present owner^ 
George W. White. The mills are run by water-power. The 
grist-mill has three runs of stones, and a capacity of 300 bushels 
per day. The specialty is feed and buckwheat grinding. The 
first saw-mill on West creek, was built by Michael Jenks, in 1803^ 
the present one being the third that has been built on this site. 
Its capacity is about 4,000 feet in twelve hours. 

Franklin Davis's Saw-Mill, on road 25, was built by him in the 
spring of 1870, upon the site of one then destroyed by fire, and 
which had been in use about 20 years. The mill has a circular 
saw, bench saw, etc., and turns out about 500,000 feet of lumber 
per year. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 259 

BIOGRAPHICAL. 

Royal W. Clinton was born in Colebrook, Qonn., March i, 1823, 
the eldest child of a family of thirteen children. His father, Ly- 
man Clinton, Jr., and his grandfather, Lyman CUnton, Sr., the 
latter a native of Connecticut, born April 3, 1771, died April 30, 
1855, much respected in the community in which he lived. The 
wife of Lyman Clinton, Jr., and mother of Royal W., was 
Miranda, daughter of Wells Stone, of Sharon, Conn. In 1831 
they removed to Newark Valley, arriving in the month of May, 
after a tedious journey of two weeks. Lyman Chnton, Sr, , had 
visited this section in 1830, and had selepted six hundred acres of 
land for the purpose of dividing it among his children, reserving 
a portion thereof for himself. Lyman Clinton, Jr., not being sat- 
isfied with the location of his allotment, chose a different one a 
mile and a half east of the present village of Newark Valley, 
where he remained until the winter of I871, when he removed to 
the village ; and three years later, July 4, 1874, he pagsed away, 
aged seventy-five years. His widow died January 17, 1882. 

Royal W. Clinton received a common-school education, and 
attended a select school two years. He lived with his father 
until he was nineteen years of age, and two years later married 
Anna C, eldest daughter of William and Rosanna Knapp, of 
Newark Valley. Immediately subsequent to his marriage, he 
became proprietor of his father-in-law's wool-carding and cloth- 
dressing establishment, which business he conducted summers, 
and during the winter months got out lumber, for about five 
years. About this time he purchased a lot of timber-land, one 
and one half miles east of the village, from which he commenced 
cutting the lumber, erecting a steam saw-mill on the property, 
which was the first one operated successfully in the town. He 
■cleared a farm of one hundred and fifty acres in the vicinity of 
the mill, making improvements from time to time, until it became 
a valuable property. 

In i86ihe sold the mill, and in company with his brother-in- 
law, H. W. Clinton, built another mill, and from that time until 
the present, ha§ engaged extensively in the lumber trade, pur- 
chasing, in addition to what he sawed himself, all that sawed by 
three or four other mills in the surrounding country. In 1867 he 
found it necessary, in order to facilitate his rapidly increasing 
business, to retpove to a more central point ; hence he erected a 



26o TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

fine residence in the village, where he now resides. In 1866 he 
engaged in the mercantile business with his son-in-law, Morris 
Elwell and brother, at Newark Valley, which is at present con- 
ducted b}' William Elwell. Duringthe year 1866 he was ap- 
pointed one of the railroad commissioners for the bonding of the 
town for the construction of the Southern Central Railroad, and 
in 1873 hs was made one of the directors of the company in rec- 
ognition of his valuable services in procuring this necessary im- 
provement. He has held various town offices in the gift of hi& 
fellow citizens of the Republican party, to which political organ- 
ization he belongs. At the age of nineteen he experienced re- 
ligion, and united with the Methodist Episcopal church of New- 
ark Valley, of which he has ever since been an active and effi- 
cient member. He contributed one-fourth of the entire cost of 
the present beautiful structure of the society, and for nearly forty 
years consecutively he has been superintendent of the Methodist 
Episcopal Sunday-school of Newark Valley, and has been class- 
leader for forty-two years. In February, 1887, Mr. Clintom 
proposed to school districts Nos. 2 and 14, that they unite in a 
union graded school district, an^ thus afford good school 
facilities at the village. In event of this proposition being accept- 
ed, he promised to build, at his own expense, a fine school build- 
ing, the districts to purchase a site therefor. This they didr 
choosmg the old Lincoln hotel property, paying therefor $1,700.00. 
Plans were made, and the present fine brick school building is^ 
the result, erected at a cost of $10,000.00. The building is 60x68- 
feet, two stories, slate roof, iron cornices, etc., and forms a 
lasting monument to its munificent donor. Mr. Clinton is super- 
visor of the town, which office he has held for three consecutive 
terms. The family of Mr. and Mrs. Clinton consists of three 
children, namely : Ella J., born April 20, 1845 ; Austin W.,. 
born March 11, 1850; Arthur G., born March 3, 1856. Austia 
W. was graduated with honors from Cornell University, in 
the class of 1872, and he and his brother are now engaged ir> 
the mercantile and lumber business at Harford Mills, Cortland 
Co., N. Y. The daughter, Ella W., is the wife of Morris Elwell^ 
of Newark Valley. Mrs. Clinton died June 13, 1882, and January 
3, 1883, he married Mrs. Caroline Burroughs, daughter of 
Sherwood Sterling, and widow of Stephen Burroughs, of Bridge- 
port, Conn. 

The Rev. Jay Clizbe, fifth pastor of the church in Newark 
Valley, was born at Amsterdam, N. Y., 16 June, 1836; son of 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 261 



Ellis and Ruth (Giliet) Clizbe. He was graduated at Union col- 
lege, in 1861, and at Andover Theological Seminary, in 1864,, 
taking the valedictory in each. He was ordained 5 April, 1865,. 
at Amherst, Mass., where he was pastor till 5 April, 1867 ; trav- 
eled in Europe from July, 1868, till September, 1869, and was- 
pastor at Marshall, Michigan, for one year. He began his minis- 
try in Newark Valley, 14 fanuary, 1872; was installed as pastor,^ 
25 September, 1872, and so continued till i January, 1887, when, 
on account of illness, the relation was terminated at his own 
request. During the last years of his pastorate he spent about 
a year and a half in Europe, for the benefit of his health. He 
married, at Amherst, 28 Feb., 1866, with Mary Eliza Hills^ 
daughter of Leonard Mariner and Amelia (Gay) HiUs, of Am- 
herst. 

Rev. Marc Fivas, a resident of Newark Valley, where he died 
in July, 1876, at the age of eighty-four years, was a noted man 
in the literary world, and especially so in the world of science. 
He was born in Vevay, Switzerland, in 1792; was a clergyman 
in the National church, and professor of natural sciences in the 
Academy of Lausanne, and one of the first teachers of Prof, 
Louis Agassiz. By reason of political trouble in his native land, 
he came with Prof. Matile and others to Newark Valley in 1849. 
He was a member of historical and scientific societies in Europe,. 
and lectured before the scientific societies of New York and 
Philadelphia. He was a man of fine culture and ripe scholar- 
ship. 

Hon. Jerome B. Landfield, of the firm of Davidge, Landfield 
& Co., has been a resident of Newark Valley since 1865, when 
his firm succeeded that of Howe & Lincoln in the tanning busi- 
ness. Mr. Landfield was born at Harvard, Delaware Co., N, 
Y., November 6, 1827, eldest son of Clark and Hannah (Thomas) 
Landfield, of that place. He began business life in the mercan,-' 
tile trade, and in 1858 commenced the tanning business, becom- 
ing associated with John Davidge, when they purchased the tan- 
nery at Newark Valley, though he continued in trade here until 
a comparatively recent date. In 1873 and '74, Mr. Landfield 
served his district in the legislature, having also been elected 
from Dela'ware county to the legislature of 1864. In 1867 he 
was elected" county superintendent of the poor, an office he held 
till January, 1871. He has also served as supervisor, railroad 
commissioner, etc., in the Republican ranks. Mr. Landfield mar- 
ried, for his first wife, Elizabeth Canouse, in 1853, who bore him 



262 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

four children, none of whom are living. Mrs. Landfield died in 
May, 1865, and in Se^ptember, 1866^ Mr. Landfield married Helen 
Rogers, of Chenango Forks, Broome Co., who has borne him 
three children, two of whom are living, Jerome B., Jr., born 
May 6, 1872, and Grace H., born in 1874. 

William Cargill was born in Tyringham, Mass., July 13, 1831, 
the second son of Heman and Olive (Sears) Cargill. Mr. Cargill 
■came to Tioga county with his brother John, in 1852, locating in 
Berkshire, to begin the manufacture of hand-rakes, a business he 
remained in till 1856, when.hecame to Newark Valley and located 
upon the so-called Randall farm. After eleven years of farm life 
he sold this property and in company with L. E. Williams began 
the manufacture of wagons at Newark Village. Soon after in 
1867, the firm name was changed to Moore, Cargill & Co., and they 
then built the present L. E. William's steam-mill. With this insti- 
tution Mr. Cargill was identified till August, 1886. In the mean 
time Messrs. Williams and Cargill added the furniture and under- 
taking business, and at the latter date they divided, Mr. WilHams 
taking the lumber-mill and Mr. Cargill the latter business, which 
he still continues. Mr. Cargill married Adaline A. Graves, of 
Southboro, Mass., August 16, 1853, who has borne him seven 
children; Wilbur G., of Southfield, Mass., Eliza G. (Mrs. William 
Ryan), Frank H., of Rochester, N. Y., Olive S. (Mrs. Cornelius 
S. Burroughs), Minnie E., Rennie B. and Nellie. 

Dr. William J. Burr, son of Andrew, was born in Homer, Cort- 
land county, N. Y., March 28, 1818. He received his early edu- 
cation in that place and his preparatory professional educa- 
tion there and in Ithaca. He graduated from the medical depart- 
ment of Hobart College, Geneva, N. Y., in the class of '45. 
He commenced practice in Tompkins county, where he remained 
for five years and a half, and afterward practiced in Allegany 
county for. eleven years. In the fall of 1861, from patriotic 
motives, he entered the Union army as private, and was at once 
made assistant surgeon of the 59th Regt. N. Y. Vols., and after- 
ward promoted to the office of surgeon of the 42d N. Y. Regt, 
.and was again promoted to staff surgeon. For nearly three years 
he was a member of the operating staff of his division. He con- 
tinued in the service until the close of the war. He then came to 
Newark Valley and began the practice of his profession, in which 
(he still continues. In August, 1845 he married Jane C, daugh- 
ter of Otis Lincoln. They have had born to them four children, 
wiz.: William H., a veterinary surgeon, Sarah, wife of E. H. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 263 

Becker, president of the Buffalo fertilizer company, George L., 
who has recently been appointed instructor in the school of His- 
tory in Cornell University, and Ella wife of C. O. Upton, of Colo- 
rado. Dr. Burr was a member of the Medical associations of this 
and Allegany counties, and has been presiding officer in each. 
He was also a member of the American Medical association. 

Dr. Cornelius R. Rogers, was born in Windham, Pa., June 20, 
1837, a son of Daniel and Huldah (Farmer) Rogers. He came to 
Owego with his parents when two years of age, and was educated 
in the common schools, at Owego academy, and at Binghamton 
academy. From the age of eighteen to twenty-five he was a 
successful school teacher. In 1861 he married Miss H. H. Tracy, 
of Newark Valley, and has two children, M. Anna Rogers, the 
accomplished organist of the Methodist Episcopal church, Owego, 
and James T. Rogers, assistant postmaster at Owego. In 1862 
he was appointed keeper of the Tioga county poor-house, which 
position he held five years. During this time he studied medicine 
under the late Dr. H. Arnold, of Owego, and attended Bellevue 
Hospital Medical College in 1864-5, and Geneva Medical College 
in 1866-7, where he graduated. He also has a diploma from the 
medical department of Syracuse University, dated June, 1877. 
In 1868 he located at Whitney's Point, and became a very suc- 
cessful practitioner. In 1876 he removed to Newark Valley, and 
from thence to Owego in 1879, and in 1884 returned to Newark 
Valley. He held the office of coroner of Tioga county from 1877 
to 1883. In 1880 he was elected president of the board of school 
commissioners of Owego, and served very efficiently for three 
years, during which time the elegant new high school building 
was erected. He is a member of the Broome and Tioga county 
medical socities, both of which he has served as president. He 
is at present health officer of the town of Newark Valley. He is 
a member of the Methodist Episcopal church, and an active Sun- 
day school worker. 

Dr. Francis M. Bishop, son of Lewis D. and Samatha J. (Liver- 
more) Bishop, was born at Castle Creek, N. Y., Dec. 16, 1839. 
The doctor studied in the common school of his native town, and 
graduated at Hahneman Medical College, at Philadelphia, Pa. 
He began practice at Newark Valley, in 1874, and has been in 
practice here since. Dr. Bishop married Olive L. Matthews, of 
LeRaysville, Pa., May i, 1864, and has one child, an infant daugh- 
ter, two having died. 

Romaine F. Bieber was born in Newark Valley, Oct. 23, 1853, 

18* 



264 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

son of Henry and Catharine (Sebastion) Bieber. He studied in 
his native town, graduated at the Wyoming Seminary, of Kings- 
ton, Pa., in 1879. and commenced the study of law with E. H. 
Ryan, now of Syracuse, N. Y., and was admitted to the bar ii> 
November, 1882. Mr. Bieber, married Alma Settle, November 
2, 1881, and has two children, a son and a daughter. 

Alfred Smith, son of Ezra, was born in Scipio, Cayuga county,. 
N. Y., January i, 18 16. The year following, his father removed 
to Springwater, Livingston county, N. Y., where the family re- 
mained a few years and then removed to Richmond — ^in that part 
of the town afterward set off and called Canadice — Ontario- 
county, N. Y. In 1840 Mr. Smith removed to the town of Can- 
dor where he engaged in farming, and also worked at the trade 
of carpenter and joiner. In February, 1856, he purchased the 
mill property at Jenksville, and conducted the business of the 
mills until the spring of i860, when he sold to Egbert Crans. In 
the fall of that year he went to Leavenworth, Kan., where he en- 
gaged under contract with William S. Rayburn, of Philadelphia, 
Pa., to cut and deliver at the steamboat landing, in the winter of 
1860-61, four hundred cords of wood for use upon the river steam- 
ers. The following summer he engaged in freighting in the 
Rocky mountains. In the fall of 1861 he returned to Jenksville 
and Crans deeded the mills back to him. In the winter of 1865— 
66 he rebuilt the saw-mill upon a more improved plan, with 
greater facilities. In the fall of 1866 he disposed of the mills and 
water privilege to Peter S. Dunning, who took possession Janu- 
ary I, 1867, and Mr. Smith engaged- in farming. On September 
13, 1843, he married Mary, daughter of Harry and Betsey (Cady) 
Armstrong, by whom he had two children, Charles B., born June 
2, 1844,3 locomotive engineer, who was killed at his post of duty 
on the Atlantic and Great Western R. R , September 30, 1867^ 
and a daughter who died in infancy. Mrs. Smith died June 2^ 
1857. His present wife is Susan A., daughter of the late Calvin 
and Annis (Brown) Jenks, of Berkshire, by whom he has one 
daughter, Mary L. 

Russell Mead was born on the Minisink river in N. J., and at 
an early age removed with his father's family to Carmel, Putnam 
county, N. Y. At the age of twenty-five years he came to Wel- 
tonville and located on a farm, a portion of which is now owned 
by Walter Herrick. He afterwards moved into this town, on 
the farm now occupied by Willis Hover. He married Sally Ann^ 
daus^hter of Toseohus Barrott. of Putnam coiintv hv whr>m he^ 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 265 

had ten children, the eldest of whom was Rogers. D., now resid- 
ing on road i, in this town. He married Martha, daughter of 
Mrs. Jemima Hover, of Candor, and has ten children, viz.: Mil- 
den, S. Am)% Priscilla, Milton, Russell B., Clyde V., Arietta, 
Hattie, John A. R., and Maggie J. Mr. Mead has been engaged 
principally in farming. Was postmaster at West Newark after 
the death of his father, who was postmaster at that place for 
many years. 

Michael Van Wormer came from Guilderland, Albany county, 
about 1825, and located in East Newark, on the farm now owned 
by Ira Shoultes. He married Hannah Sturgess,.by whom he had 
ten children, their oldest being Margaret, who married Almeron 
Williams, December 12, 1829. Their children were r Adalinda, 
Juhet, Cammilla, Stella, Ada A., Royal R., Wright B., of South 
Owego, Angeline, Eliza, and Adelma. 

George Hoff came from Kinderhook to Albany county when 
a young man, and from there to Tioga county, where he settled 
in the town of Tioga. He bought a farm and cleared a place for 
a home for his family, and during most of his life continued fann- 
ing in different localities in this county. He married Catherine 
Dubois, of Columbia county, by whom he had nine children, who 
arrived at maturity. Next to the youngest of these was Erastus, 
who came to this town in 1859, where he has since been engaged in 
farming. Previous to that date he was engaged in mercantile 
pursuits. He married Mary E. Harlin, of Candor, and has five 
children, viz.: Stella E;, John. H., Carrie E., Jennie, and Alice M. 

Timothy S., son of Jacob Councilman, of Lisle, N. Y., was 
born in that town February 19, 1823. He married first Rebecca 
Braman, of Lisle, December 25. 1845, and by whom he had one 
son, Jira F. He came to this town in 1856 and located on the 
farm now occupied by his son on road 19. His second wife was 
Mary G. Simmonds. Jira F. married Calista J., daughter of 
Samuel S. Rodman, of Union. 

John, son of John Borthwick, was born in Monogan, Monogan 
Co., Ireland, whither his father had moved from the Highlands 
of Scotland, and at the age of nine years came with his father's 
family to this country and settled in the town of Montgomery, 
Orange Co., N. Y. He married Sarah Porter, of Blooming- 
burgh, N. Y , by whom he had twelve children, viz.: William, 
a soldier, who died at Fortress Monroe, Joseph, of Berkshire, 
Mary J., who married Abram Hover, now deceased, D. James,: 
of this tojivrn, Edward, who died in Illinois in 1854, Almira, who 



266 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

died in infancy, George, of Sierra Nevada, Cal., where he has 
lived since 1851, Alexander, of Candor, Sarah, wife of Charles 
W. Allen, Dorcas, wife of Charles Guyon, Esther, wife of Lucius 
Keith, and Delphine. Mr. Borthwick came to this town in 1823, 
and located on the farm now owned by Charles Hill. D. James 
married Milla M., daughter of William S. and Milla (Richardson) 
Lawrence, December 11, 1845, and have had born to them four 
children, viz.: Lucina J., wife of C. R. Ackerman, Milla, wife 
of Sheridan Hall, George H., and Edward, who died at the age 
of six years. 

Noyce Chapman, son of Jed, was born August 25, 1820. He 
married Mary A., daughter of Moses and Bridget (Robinson) 
Livermore, January 20, 1847, by whom he had two children, 
Wealthy M. and Frederick H., of this place. Wealthy M. .mar- 
ried Wright B. Williams, and has four children, viz.: George A., 
Emma L., Lyman F. and Bennie C. Frederick H. married 
Chloe Shaw, and has one child, Ida L. 

Abel Merrill was born October g, 1798, and married Lucinda 
Bullock, who was born September 3, 1803. Their children are 
Louisa S., born May 12, 1831, Norman L., born October 28, 1832, 
Mary B., born July 26, 1840, and Mattie A., born May i, 1845. 

Edwin P. Smith, son of Henry and Meribah (Collins) Smith, 
was born in Milford, Otsego Co., ip 1828. When twelve years 
of age he came with his father's family to Nanticoke, N. Y., and 
from there he removed to this town where he has been engaged 
chiefly in farming. He married Mary, daughter of Consider 
Howland, of Lisle, N. Y., in 1852, and has two children, viz.: 
Jabez and Mary. Jabez married Belle Donley, of Newark 
Valley, and has one child, Thur, aged three years. 

Henry B. Guyon, son of James, born December 10, 1807, came 
from Union, Broome county, in 1841, and located on the farm 
now owned by his son, Charles S. He married Rebecca M. 
Thorn, October 8, 1833, by whom he had eight children, born as 
follows: Charles S., October 28, 1834; Theodore, October 22, 
1836; Esther, December 29, 1838; Ruth A., August 9, 1841; Ma- 
hala, November 23, 1844; Josiah J., June 14, 185O; Henry T., 
November 12, 1852 ; and John W., December 30, 1856. Ruth A. 
died June 27, 1842; Mahala, April 18, 1846; Theodore, April 9, 
1863; Esther, August 25, 1877. Mrs. Guyon was born June 13, 
1814, and died February 27, 1869, Mr. Guyon married for bis 
second wile Mary Schoonover, January 20, 1870. His death 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 267 



occurred March 115, 1876. Charles S. married Dorcas, daughter 
of John Borthwick, December 8, i860. 

Anthony Tappan came from Middleburg, Schoharie Co., N. Y., 
and located on the farm now occupied by Henry Loveland. He 
married Anna Cook, by whom he had seven children, viz.: Wil- 
liam, Hellena, wife of David Taylor, Asher, Nancy, Silas, Riley 
A. and John C. Riley A. married Jane E. Watson, by whom he 
has two sons, viz.: Watson and Charles A. 

CHURCHES. 

Congregational Church — Religious services had been held prior 
to the organization of this church, in barns and dwelling-houses, 
and conducted by Rev. Seth Williston, a missionary from Con- 
necticut. This church was formed as the first Congregational 
church in the town of Tioga, Thursday, November 17, 1803. 
The constituent members were Dr. Joseph Waldo, Nathaniel 
Ford, Jesse Gleazen, Levi Bailey, Beulah Brown, and Caroline 
Ford. The church was organized by Rev. Seth Williston and, 
Rev. Jatnes Woodward, missionaries from Connecticut. Mrs. 
Sarah Slosson, wife of Enoch Slosson, Mrs. Mary Hosford, wife 
of Joseph Hosford, and Mrs. Rachel Williams, wife of Stephen 
Williams, Sr., joined the church on Sunday, November 20, 1803, 
three days after its organization. They probably had letters of 
dismission from churches in the east, as Barney Truman joined 
the church on profession of faith the same day and the first Sun- 
day of its existence, making the number of its members at that 
time ten. It had no officers until April 4, 1805, when Nathaniel 
Ford was elected deacon, and no preaching except by the Con- 
necticut missionaries. 

The society of Western was organized October 23, 1805, 'i^id 
fifty-eight of the inhabitants signed an agreement, November 
II, 1805, fixing a rate of from two to eight per cent, which 
each should annually pay upon his property for the support 
of the gospel. December 24, 1805, the church and society 
voted to call Rev. Jeremiah Osborn to settle with them, at a 
salary of $275 annually, with an annual increase of $25 until it 
reached $350. This call was accepted January 11, 1806, and the 
church and pastor elect called a council to assist in his ordina- 
tion. The council met at the house of Widow Dudley. March 
3, 181 1, the church applied for a union with the Presbytery of 
Cayuga, and was admitted as a constituent member, September 



268 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

II, 1811, and remained in that connection until July 2, i86g. 
Since that time it has been associated with Congregational 
churches. Rev. Mr, Osborn remained with them until 1818, 
when he resigned ; was succeeded by Rev. Marcus Ford, who 
was ordained December 3, 1820, filled the position acceptably, 
and resigned on account of ill health April 27, 1859. Samuel F. 
Bacon became their pastor in 1866; Samuel Johnson in 1871. 
Jay Clisbe, January [4, 1872, commenced his labors. At present 
they have no pastor. 

During the winter of 1830-31 a revival occurred, and in the 
April communion 107 joined the church by profession of faith, 
and six by letter ; in July following twenty-two more, thus more 
than doubling the membership. January 12, 1823, eight mem- 
bers were dismissed to form the North church, in Berkshire, now 
the Congregational church of Richford. Three were dismissed, 
September 14, 1823, to form a church on West Owego creek. 
In June and July, 1833, seventy-two members were dismissed to 
be embodied in a church at Berkshire, which was organized July 
24, 1833, with sixty eight members, of whom fifty-four were from 
this church. The first house of worship was built north of the 
village of Newark Valley, where now stands the brick house 
owned by Samuel Watson. It was erected as early as 1803 or 
1804, and was a plain framed house, twenty-four by thirty-six feet 
in size, with posts eleven feet high and a steep roof. It was 
never finished, but was left open from floor to rafter. This is 
the style of meeting-houses that for fourteen years the ancient 
worthies of this church worshiped in, without a fire, except the 
few coals the good old mothers carried in their foot-stoves. This 
building was moved across the way, a little below its original 
site, in the corner of the sugar-maple grove, afterwards used by 
Rev Mr. Ford for a barn. 

The second house was built on the old site and dedicated July 
4, 18 1 7. It was forty-five by fifty-five feet, with a spacious gal- 
lery and the old fashioned high pulpit. For fourteen years more 
the congregation worshiped here, when the gradual growth of 
the two centers of business, Berkshire and Newark Valley, each 
three miles from the meeting-house, made it inconvenient for the 
people. September i, 1831, the society instructed tl)e trustees 
to consult the several individuals belonging to the society rel- 
ative to a change of place of worship, and report it next meet- 
ing. The trustees reported in favor of moving, and the report 
was accepted, the north part of the society giving their consent. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. * 269 

$1,944.86 was subscribed for a new church, and the contractor 
bought the old house, took it down, and used it in the new house, 
built on the site where the present church stands (Otis Lincoln 
presenting half an acre for that purpose), and substantially like 
the old one. In 184911 was moved back from the .street and re- 
built in modern style, dedicated, and used seven years. In 1867 
it took its third, journey, about 100 feet to the north, to make 
way for its successor. In i858 the present building was erected 
at a cost of $12,725, and was dedicated January 14, 1869. After 
the completion of the new church the old " traveling sanctuary" 
was again removed, and is now used and known as the "Allison 
Opera House." 

Methodist Episcopal Church. — As early as 1822, Rev. George 
W. Densmore, stationed at Chenango, visited and preached 
through here, by way of Lisle, making a circuit. He was one of 
the first ministers in Oneida Conference. Admitted on trial in 
1810, full conlmunion in 1811, ordained in 1812. In 1826 Rev. 
Herota P. Barnes and Fitch Reed preached occasionally, there 
being no Methodist organization here. During the years 1831-32, 
David A. Shepard, located at Berkshire, preached here, and held 
quarterly meetings in the old town-house in 1831, and organized 
the first society, composed of seven members, Minerva Collins, 
Mary Ann Ruey, Munson and Experience Clark, Miel Dean and 
wife, and Selecta Williams. In 1833, this place was recognized 
by the Oneida Conference as Newark Station, and Moses Adams 
was the first stationed minister, the church being built under his 
pastorate. The society now has a fine brick edifice, erected in 
1883. There is a branch society at East Newark, about three 
miles east. At this place they erected a fine church in 1859. 

A Free- Will Baptist Church was located at this place prior to 
1820, with a meeting-house on the corner of Main and Silk streets ; 
Rev. John Gould as pastor. It was in a weak condition, and the 
most of the members united with the Methodist church after their 
organization. 

The Baptist Church of Newark Valley was organized October 
27, 1857, by a council composed of delegates from other churches; 
among them Revs. L. Ranstead, J. W. Emory, ■ — — Smith, of 
Candor, and W. H. King, of Owego. There were twenty-six 
cQnstituent members at the formation of the church. The first 
baptism in the church was/Stephen Piatt, April 11, 1858. Rev. 
D. T. Leach preached here as a missionary from the Home Mis- 
sionary Society, and was settled as a pastor June 9, i860. Ser- 



270 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 

vices were held for a short time in the Congregational church, 
and about 1858 a church was erected. In 1869 a large and com- 
modious brick edifice was erected at a cost of $10,000. 

A Congregational Church was organized at West Newark, in 
1823, with twelve members. The first services were held in 
William Richardson's barn. In the winter of 1823-24 they built 
a school house sufficiently large for church purposes also, and 
worshiped there until 1848, when the present one was built. Rev, 
Zenus Riggs w;as the first pastor. 

The Alpha Methodist Episcopal Church was organized at Jenks- 
ville in 1852, with twenty-five members. The first pastor was 
Rev. Salisbury. 

A Reformed Methodist Church was organized at Ketchumville, 
with nme members, in 1837, and a church erected in 1852. 



NICHOLS* is that part of the county lying in an angle formed 
by the western boundary of the town of Owego, and the 
Pennsylvania line, and is bounded on the north and west 
by the Susquehanna river. Owing to the peculiar course of the 
river, the town is of an irregular shape, having a breadth at the 
eastern end of some five or six miles, which diminishes towards 
the western part to scarcely more than one mile, the extreme 
length on the southern line being between ten and eleven miles. 
This territory was formerly a part of the town of Owego, from 
which it was separated and added to Tioga, in 1813. In 1824 it 
was taken from Tioga and organized into a separate township. 
The western part oi the town thus organized was included in a 
considerable tract of land known as Hooper's Patent, which 
embraced lands in other parts of the state. The eastern part was- 
known as Coxe's Manor, or Patent, concerning which we have 
spoken in subsequent pages of this work. 

The surface of the town is mostly upland, terminating in steep 
declivities upon the river, and broken by the narrow valleys of 
small streams. The summits of the hills are broad, and attain an 
altitude of from three hundred to five hundred feet above the 
river. A productive gravelly loam forms the soil of the valleys, 
and a moderately fertile, gravelly, and clayey loam, underlaid by 
red sandstone, the hills. The principal stream in the town is the 

*Prepared by Miss Mary L. Barstow, of Nichols Village. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 2^1 



Wappasening- creek, which enters the town from Bradford county^ 
Pa., at the hamlet of the same name, and flows north into the Sus- 
quehanna. That river forms the north and western boundaries- 
of the town. As an agricultural town Nichols has always been 
prosperous. Every year has seen the area of her cleared land 
increased, and her general condition improved. Fine farms and 
good farm houses are to be seen in every part of the town. There 
is no finer agricultural town in the Susquehanna Valley, nor one 
which, to the passing traveler, presents a more agreeable succes- 
sion of hill and valley, woodland, meadow and running stream.. 
It has an area of 19,850 acres, of which 14,200 acres is improved 
land. 

Early Settlement. —The first permanent settler in the town was- 
probably Emanuel Coryell, who came to the Susquehanna Valley 
as agent for Colonel Hooper, for the sale of his lands. He found 
there however, several of these irregular settlers that are com- 
monly found on new lands. Among them we find the name of 
Mills, Ellis, Pierce and Walker. The children of Ellis and Pierce 
were said to be the first white children born in the town. Only 
George Walker became a permanent resident. He was the father 
of Samuel Walker, afterw^ards well known in the town. Among- 
other early settlers honorable mention should be made of Isaac 
Sharp, a settler of mixed blood, who was a soldier in the army of 
General Gates, and was present at the "taking of Burgoyne." He 
raised a large family of sons, who were afterwards well known 
among the lumbermen and laborers of the country. There were 
also two families of the name of Jones, .one of whom was said to- 
have raised the first crop of wheat grown in the town. 

Emanuel Coryell, a patriot of the revolution, was the son of 
the proprietor of Coryell's Ferry, on the Delaware, where Wash- 
ington and his army were ferried over before the battle of Tren- 
ton. An accident which happened to him in infancy, prevented 
him through life, from walking without the aid of a cane. Owing^ 
to this circumstance, his father felt it necessary to give him as- 
liberal an education as was to be had at the time, in order to his 
taking up one of the learned professions. He chose that of medi- 
cine, and had become a student in the office of a Dr. Ingham^ 
at Coryell's Ferry, at the beginning of the war, when he at once 
threw aside his books and entered the army, where, as he was 
prevented by his infirmity from entering the ranks, he went into- 
the commissary department, where he did good service, ranking 
as captain, during the entire war. He, with the rest of his- 



2/2 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 

father's family, and the American people generally, came out of the 
conflict rich in hope and the consciousness of duty well performed, 
but with very little of the means wherewith to support their fami- 
lies. A year or two before the close of the war he had married a 
lady of Bucks county. Pa., and at its close, having no profession, 
he took up his residence on his father's farm. He soon, however, 
became engaged with Colonel Hooper in exploring and survey- 
ing lands of which the latter was patentee, and at length became 
his agent for the sale of those on the Susquehanna. 

These lands, as we are told by the Hon. C. P. Avery, in his 
Susquehanna Valley, to which the writer is indebted for many 
facts relating to the settlement of the town, were held at reason- 
able prices, and liberal means were adopted to induce immigra- 
tion from the Eastern States. Judge Avery adds : "The liberal 
promptness with which valuable territory in Nichols was placed 
in the market, caused that portion of the county to fill up more 
rapidl}' at an early day, than any other section within its limits." 
Having, at a visit made to the county during the previous sum- 
mer, in company with Colonel Hooper, selected a spot whereon 
to pitch his tent,- Mr. Coryell left his home at Coryell's Ferry 
some time during the summer of 1791, and started for the "Sus- 
quehanna Country," a journey much more formidable to the 
emigrant of that day than one beyond the Mississippi would be 
at present. They traveled in an emigrant wagon, which carried 
the family, consisting of himself, his wife and five children, and 
a young girl living with them, named Isabel Mac Adams. We 
are told that a cow was .driven along with them for the benefit 
of the children. They must necessaril)- have had another man 
with them, as Mr. Coryell, with his infirmity, would scarce have 
been able to undertake such a journey without assistance.^ They 
■crossed the country from the Delaware to the Susquehanna, 
which they reached at Wilksbarre. Here thev were detained for 
a time while making arrangements to ascend the river. At the 
end of a week a craft was procured which Judge Avery calls a 
"Durham boat," but which we have heard spoken of simply as 
a flat boat. It was probably not unlike one of our large ferry- 
boats, but, of course, must have contained a cabin. This was 
manned by two boatmen, who propelled it up the river by means 
-of setting-poles. Placing his wife and family on board of this 
primitive conveyance, together with such articles of furniture 
and household stuff as they had been able to bring with them, 
they set out on the remainder of the journey. This, we may 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 273 

easily believe, it took them two weeks to accomplish, as the river 
was low and they frequently had to lie by to wait for a rise of 
■water. They finally landed at a place known afterwards as Coryell's 
Eddy. It was at the foot of a high bank, on the top of which 
•stood the log cottage which was to afford them temporary shel- 
ter. This was occupied by an old man named James Cole, who 
lived there with his wife and daughter and a grandson, Elijah 
Cole, and cultivated some fields along the river. This man was 
from Wyoming Valley, and, with his family, was familiar with 
many of the tragic events connected with its history. In this 
■house Mr. Coryell and his family found a home until another log 
■dwelling in the vicinity could be made ready for their reception. 
In this they liv6d for some years, until they were able to procure 
■materials for the erection of a better one. This, too, was built 
•of logs, " weather-boarded," that is, covered with siding to give 
it the appearaince of a framed house. It stood near a fine " Indian 
•clearing " of some ten or twelve acres, about a mile above the 
first one, and here grew up Mr. Coryell's large family of son^ 
and daughters. 

With the exception of the lands lying contiguous to the river, 
the country at that time was covered with forests, principally of 
white pine, a tree always indicating a fine soil wherever it grows, 
but mingled with ash, maple, hickory and beech, and other valu- 
able hard woods. These woods abounded with game and the 
rivers with fish. The shad, that best of all river fish, came up in 
immense numbers every spring, and were caught b}"^ the settlers 
in nets, the owners of the land along the river being entitled to a 
•certaip quantity for the "land right." These fish, salted down, 
formed an important and very acceptable addition to the stores 
•of the settlers. The climate was mild, though the winters were 
•cold and invariably snowy, and there were no prevailing diseases 
•except those caused by the malaria commonly found where for- 
■ests are being cleared up. Mr. Coryell, who, as he was appointed 
a few years later first Judge of the county court, is com- 
monly spoken of as Judge Coryell, took up for himself a tract of 
land along the river, which must have comprised an area of 
nearly a square mile, or 640 acres; extending from what is now 
the Asbury church lot, on the west, to a point above, where the 
public road and the river approach each other; besides three or 
four hundred acres of wild land lying on both sides of the Wap- 
pasening, a mile above its mouth. 

The next settler on the river, in point of time, was General 



274 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



John Smyth, who wrote his name as it is here spelled. He came 
to town in the year 1794. He, too, was a soldier of the revolu- 
tion, frqm Monroe county, Pa. He was accompanied by his three 
sons, only one of whom, however, finally made it his home in> 
Nichols. Mr. Nathan Smith inherited his father's farm, which 
lay between that afterwards owned by Edmund Palmer and the 
lands purchased soon after by Mr. Shoemaker, who was the next 
person to settle on that fine tract of land known then and since 
as the Maughantowano Flats. 

Daniel Shoemaker, a revolutionary soldier and pensioner, was- 
of that Shoemaker family whose name occurs with such tragic- 
significance in the history of Wyoming. He emigrated directly 
from Monroe county. Pa. He must also have taken up nearly or 
quite a square mile of land. The Maughantowano Flats - since 
corrupted to Montontowango — comprised some of the choicest 
lands not only in the county, but in the state. They h^d been, as- 
judge Avery tells us, the favorite corn ground of the Indians,, 
who had not yet disappeared from the country, some families- 
living, we are told, at the mouth of the Wappasening creek. The 
county has afforded some valuable Indian relics. 

Edmund Palmer came to Nichols not far from the year 1800, 
He purchased a farm below, and immediately adjoining the Shoe- 
maker property. In 1804 he married a daughter of Judge CoryelU 
and built a house on this farm, where he lived many years. 
He subsequently purchased the farm lying between the property 
of Judge Coryell and that of the Smiths, of a man named Barnes, 
who was perhaps the original purchaser. In 1827 he built the 
house so long the home of the Palmer family. Meantime, settlers- 
came into other parts of the town. Colonel Richard Sacket cam^e 
from Long Island. The date of arrival is not known. He pur- 
chased. a square mile of land, the lower line of which must have 
been just above the present village of Hooper's Valley. He built 
his house near a stream called the. Little Wappasening qreek, 
which divided his land into two nearly equal parts. The Colonel 
was said to have been, at home, a gentleman of wealth ; but the 
pleasures of the turf, for which Long Island has been famous, to- 
gether with generous housekeeping, and a general carelessness 
about business matters, gradually reduced his fortune till at length 
finding that he had a family growing up about him, while his 
means for, maintaining them were diminishing, he abandoned the 
race ground and other kindred delights, and turned his thoughts 
toward emigration. Having been in the county of Tioga before, 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 275 



where he was hospitably entertained at the house of Judge Coryell, 
he decided to take up his residence in the same town. His 
family consisted of a wife and several daughters, and having 
brought and established them in their new home, he settled down 
to get his living by farming. But it vyas late in the day to take 
xip a new business, and the Colonel lacked the energy that had 
impelled him in the pursuit of pleasure. He was a charming man 
in society ; an excellent man in community ; a genial host, an 
agreeable neighbor; but all this did not prevent his constantly 
growing poorer, until at the time of his death he was utterly re- 
duced ; while in possession of property that ought to have made 
him one of the wealthy men of the county. He died in 1827. 
Soon after his death his family received a large prof erty from 
the death of one of his brothers, who died in Syracuse, to which 
<:ity they finally removed ; and his widow, after having experi- 
enced the extremes of fortune, finally died in affluence. The 
property at Nichols was left encumbered with a law-suit, which 
was finally decided in favor of his heirs, and it gradually came 
into the market. The part that was occupied by the family as a 
home is now owned by Mr. Sherwood. 

In 1793 Jonathan Piatt and his son, who bore the same name, 
with their families, came into the county from Westchester 
county, N. Y. They purchased land nip the river, a mile above 
the village of Nichols, and built a house known as the Piatt home- 
stead for many years. Miles Forman, a son in-law of the elder 
Piatt, came two or three years later, and settled near the same 
spot, building the house known as the Forman homestead, which 
remained in the family until the decease of his grandspn, the late 
Stephen Forman, who died in 1884. The elder Piatt died within 
two or three years after his arrival. His son, Major Piatt, and 
his son-in-law. Major Forman, both afterwards filled the office of 
sheriff of the county, the one for two years and the other for 
three. The office at that time was an appointive one, and held but 
for a term of one year at a time. Benjamin Lounsberry another 
son-in-law of Mr. Piatt, settled a few miles farther up the river. 

Four brothers named Hunt, three of whom took up farms on 
the river, must have come into that part of the town not far from 
the same time. We hear also the names of Laning, Dunham, 
.Smith and Evans, among the earlier settlers on Coxe's Patent. 
Ezra Canfield probably came somewhat later. He built the brick 
house, the first in the town, standing at the corner of the river 
and the hill roads ; which gave the name of Canfield Corners to 



276 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



the postoffice afterwards established there. Although this was 
perhaps a part of the territory of Nichols somewhat harder to 
reduce and cultivate than the western part, yet its inhabitants- 
formed a communit}- of most prosperous farmers. Their lands- 
have constantly improved from year to year, and there are more 
names of the original settlers to be found there than in anv other 
part of the town. Mr. Lounsberry raised a family of seven sons^ 
all of whom at one time owned farms which still remain in their 
families. The house built by Mr. Canfield is at present the pro- 
perty of Samuel Smith. 

Caleb Wright came to Nichols at an early day, and took up- 
land a mile in extent along the river, lying on both sides of the 
Wappasening creek and including that where the village of Nichols- 
now stands. He was a millwright by trade, and must have been 
possessed of some means. He built a dam across the creek, with 
a race nearly half a mile in length, and erected above the mouth 
of the stream the first grist mills and saw-mills in the town. He 
had a famil}' of sons, who did not, however, inherit his habits of 
sobriety and industry. Most of them parted with their rights ta 
their father's estate before his death, some went west, which at 
that time meant the state of Ohio, where their descendants became 
prosperous and even wealthy. Thomas Wright, one of his sons, 
settled on a farm on the river, probably deeded to him by his 
father, where he built a framed house which stood about half 
way between the road and the river, in the rear of property now 
owned and occupied by Mr. Ross, in the village of Nichols. His- 
farm was immediately above that of Stephen Dodd, who also 
built a framed house on the upper edge of his farm, which is still 
in existence though little more than a heap of ruins. Thomas- 
Wright was for some years a prosperous farmer, but finally fell 
into difficulties and sold his farm to Jacob Middaugh, a settler 
from the Delaware, and moved to some distant part of the town. 
His family all did well and two of his sons were at one time, and. 
perhaps still are, among the wealthy men of Tunkhannock, Pa. 

Among the poorer settlers in the town, Stephen Reynolds de- 
serves mention. He came from eastern New York, and settled 
on the bank of the creek, on land belonging to Judge Coryell,, 
wheie there vvas a "sugar bush," that is, a collection of maple 
trees, from which the maple sugar was made,which is now regarded 
as such an article of luxury. Mr. Reynolds was a cooper, and 
worked dunng the year from place to place at his trade, except 
a iew weeks in the spring, when he and his family made sugar. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 277" 



He was very^.goor, and could neither read nor write, the same 
being true of rrfany of the emigrants, but he brought up his 
family of sons to be what he himself was, honest and industrious. 
These all accumulated property, and became the owners of good 
farms, and their descendants are some of them among the substan- 
tial men of the county. The manufacture of sugar was, at that 
time, an industry of considerable importance in the country, the 
settlers depending on it almost entirely for their supply of that 
article. Parties of men would leave their homes, at the proper 
time in the spring, and go sometimes considerable distances into- 
the woods, till they found a place for a "sugar camp," where 
they would stay during the sugar season, returning often with 
some hundreds of pounds of sugar, which they made atprofitable 
article of merchandise. 

Judge Coryell, soon after his arrival in the county, was called 
to fill various public offices. After being supervisor of the town 
he represented the county in the assembly of the state six differ- 
ent times during the twelve years subsequent to 1796, and was- 
then appointed first judge of the court of common pleas for the 
then widely extended county of Tioga. This office he held until 
disqualified by age, according to the old constitution of the state. 
His death in 1835 was the severing of another of those links- 
a-lready becoming few, which bound together the two great 
periods of our national history. Until his twenty-third year he 
was a subject of the King of England. From his thirty -first, 
he was a citizen of our great republic. He had lived at a historic 
time. He was familiar with the men and the events of the revo- 
lution, and with those of succeeding times, when the republic was- 
on trial, and its success or failure trembled in the balance. He 
was an ardent politician as he had been an ardent patriot, and he 
scarcely outlived the feelings engendered by the conflicts of that 
period. He was a man of fine manners, with that quick sense of 
honor and courtesy that we are apt to attribute exclusively to- 
gentlemen of the old school. He filled the numerous offices to- 
which he was called in the town and county of Tioga, with credit 
and ability. His hospitable mansion was ever open to entertain 
strangers, and to receive the large circle of relatives and friends- 
that delighted to do him honor. He was a generous host, an easy 
landlord to his many tenants, and a steady friend to the poor. 
He reached the venerable age of eighty one years. He outlived 
none of his children, nine of whom, with numerous grand- 
children, followed him to his grave in the Coryell cemetery,. 



2/8 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



where they are now nearly all gathered to his side. His wife, 
who outlived him several years, was one of the most interesting 
women of her time. There are some yet living who remember 
tier conversation attractive alike to young and old, and her num- 
erous anecdotes of persons and things, not only in the remote, 
but in the nearer past, which if they could have been preserved, 
would have made valuable additions to the chronicles of the 
county. She was the last among us who had seen Washington. 
Judge Coryell's large landed estate on the river was divided 
.among three of his five sons. The homestead farm was occupied 
by his youngest son, Harvey Coryell. The Coryell mansion, so 
long known as the residence successively of father and son, was 
built by Judge Coryell in 1811 or 1812, near the spot where the 
old one stood, which was pulled down when the new one was 
finished. 

The two farms below were those of John and Emanuel Coryell, 
the house of the latter standing on the spot where stood the 
log dwelling of James Cole, who had once entertained Colonel 
Hooper and his friends, and afterwards made a temporary 
home for Judge Coryell and his family. When this old man 
•died, we do not know. His grandson, Elijah Cole, married Isabel 
Mac Adams, while she was yet a young girl, and was for many 
years a tenant of Judge Coryell. He raised a large family of 
•sons, who were afterwards well known in the county. This lower 
farm of Judge Coryell was originally designed for his eldest son. 
Charles Coryell, who married a daughter of Judge Patterson, of 
Union, Broome county. He lived on the place for a while but 
^rew discontented with farm life and left it and went away. He 
final'y studied medicine with Dr. Stout of Bethlehem, Pa., and 
practiced successfully during the remainder of his life, both in 
Pennsylvania and New York. He died in Ithaca, Tompkins 
county, N. Y., in 1873. He left three sons by his first wife. His 
second wife was a Miss Smith whom he married in Philadelphia. 
The other son of Judge Coryell who was the youngest but one 
of his family, after receiving his education at Union College, 
studied law in Elmira with the Hon. Vincent Mathews, after 
whom he was named. He was admitted to the bar and settled in 
Bath, Steuben county, where he married a daughter of Dugald 
Cameron, Esq., of that town. This lady died after a brief married 
life of three or four years, after vvhich, her husband abandoned 
the profession of law, and became a minister of the Gospel and 
was for many years a laborious and successful preacher in the 



TOWN. OF NICHOLS. 279 



Methodist Episcopal church. He was stationed in the years 
1834-35 in Syracuse, N. Y., where he built the first Methodist 
church in that city where there is now a Methodist University. He 
retired frorn active service some years since, and now lives in 
Waverly, N. Y., at the advanced age of eighty-seven years, the 
last survivor of the eleven children of Judge Coryell. His only 
surviving son the issue of his first marriage, is a farmer in Nichols, 
Of the children of the second wife who was a Miss Lounsbury, of 
Onondaga county, only daughters survive, two of whom, with 
their families, compose his household in Waverly. 

The landed property of Mr. Shoemaker was also divided among 
three sons, Daniel, who occupied the upper farm, Elijah, the one 
now owned by Mr. Jacob Stuart, and Nicholas, the ^ne below. 
On the upper farm the old gentleman had built a very good house 
where, in the family of his son, he died in 1845. This house was 
destroyed by fire in 1B49, ^^'^ replaced by Mr. Shoemaker by the 
one now standing there, at present owned and occupied by Mr. 
Bensley. Elijah Shoemaker in 1825 filled the office of sheriff of 
the county, and was afterward one of the county judges. He was 
for many years a prosperous farmer, but at length meeting with 
reverses, he, in 1844 sold his farm and with his family went to 
Illinois, whe're he died in 1845. 

These six farms belonging to these two faniilies have now with 
two exceptions passed into the hands of strangers. That of 
Nicholas Shoemaker is still owned by his two sons, William and 
Edgar. The first occupying his father's house, and Robert Coryell 
still occupies the house of his grandfather Emanuel Coryell. 

Mr. Nathan Smith, who inherited the farm of his father, was 
never married, but with a sister, also unmarried, kept house in 
the paternal mansion, for many years. The late Hon. Washing- 
ton Smith, and his sister, the late Mrs. Aaron Chubbuck, grew up 
in their house. Besides these they took into their family during 
their period of housekeeping, not less than eleven indentured 
children, both boys and girls, who were carefully and conscien- 
tiously brought up in habits of honesty and industry and of whom 
it was said that they all " went out and did well in the world." 
The practice of bringing up indentured children was a common 
one at that day, among the farmers, who in that way, not only 
assisted the children and their parents, but secured valuable help, 
on their farms and in their families. 

Mr. Smith's property was left to his relatives who still retain 
possession of it. Mr. Washington Smith in 1841 was elected 

19* 



28o TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



member of assembly and some time during the years of the war 
occupied the position of state auditor. He died in 1874, and his 
family still occupy the farm inherited from their uncle. 

The Palmer family have all passed away. The father and moth- 
er and the eight children with one exception all lie in tRe Coryell 
cemetery in sight of the house where they all lived so long. That 
house is now occupied by tenants. 

John Smith, or Smyth, as the name was formerly spelled, 
while living in Sussex county, N. J., in the years of the revolu- 
tion, was an acting magistrate and a major of militia. He was 
called into service four different seasons during the war, and was 
ordered by letter from General Washington to take certain stores 
of wheat and other provisions, which had been gathered by the 
Tories for the use of the British, and distribute it among the 
families of the militia, which order he executed; and as long 
after as the year 1794, after he had settled in the Susquehanna 
Valley, he was prosecuted by one individual for grain which was 
included in said stores; but being so fortunate as to have pre- 
served the order of General Washington, he presented it and 
defeated the claim. While Washington's army was retreating 
before the British from New York toward Philadelphia, Major 
Smith was ordered to take charge of the artillery, and in cross- 
ing the bridge at New Brunswick, as soon as the troops were 
over, to cut away the bridge, which order he carried out, the 
night being exceedingly dark. After settling in this town, he 
acted as magistrate and as a supervisor of his town. He owned 
the tract known as the Maughantowano Flats. His wife was 
Elizabeth Ogden, by whom he had five children, viz.: Elizabeth, 
Nathan, Gilbert, David and J ohn . The latter was engaged on 
the Canadian frontier during the war of 18 12 . where he did 
valient service. He married, first, Nancy A. Goodwin, by whom 
he had seven children, viz.: Mary A., Julia A., Madison, Aman- 
da, Eliza A.. Sarah A., and Washington. His second wife was 
Margaret (McCarty) Miller, by whom he had one child, Theron 
O. Mary A. married John S. Dean, by whom she had three 
children, viz.: Julia A., Jefferson B., deceased, and Nathan S., 
of this town. Sarah A. is the widow of the late Rev. Jacob 
Allington, a minister of the M. E. denomination, by whom she 
has one daughter, Emily J., who resides with her mother in this 
town. Washington married Jane B., daughter of the late Hon, 
Elijah Shoemaker, who for several years was a judge of the 
county. Their children are Catharine E. and Phebe J., who re- 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 28 1 



side with their mother on the homestead. Mr. Washington 
Smith died November 13, 1874, aged sixty-three years. Nathan 
S. Dean married Frank, daughter of Daniel Shoemaker, of Wind- 
ham, Pa., by whom he has two sons, Daniel,J. and John S 

James'and Elijah Cole came from Delaware and located on 
the Wappasening creek, near where the Howell property lies. 
The exact date of their coming into the county is not known, 
but they were located on the. farm where Emanuel Coryell sub- 
sequently resided, as early as 1787, and when Judge Coryell and 
Robert Lettice Hooper visited the valley on their exploring and 
surveying tour they were entertained at their house. They 
claimed but a possessory interest in the land they occupied, hav- 
ing as yet received no title from the patentees. Elij^ had seven 
sons, viz.: James, Joseph, John, George, Daniel, Charles and Ed- 
ward, all deceased. James married Betsey, daughter of John 
Hoover, by whom he had seven children, the only surviving one 
being Horace, of Nichols. 

Daniel married Julia A. Holcomb, of Ulster, Bradford Co., Pa., 
by whom she had four children, Truman, Alfred, Sidney and 
Myra. Truman married Alice Van Dermark, by whom he had 
two children, Clayton D. and Charles. Alfred married Helen 
Waterman. 

In 1786, Miles Forman came from Peekskill, Westchester Co., 
N. Y.,and located one and one-half miles from the present site of 
Nichols village, on the farm now owned by George A. Ingersoll. 
He married Ann Piatt and reared a large family. His father 
came from England. Miles Forman was the ninth sheriff of Tioga 
county, when that county included four counties. 

The eldest son. Smith, married Martha Miller, of Southport, 
Chemung Co., N. Y., in 1818, and reared a large family. He 
built and lived on the part of the farm nearest Nichols. His 
eldest son, John, is the present owner. He married Ann Oster- 
hout, of La Grange, Wyoming Co., Pa., in 1862. They have 
three children living, Mary, Smith and John. 

Benjamin Shoemaker came to America, from Holland, in the 
decade of 1620-30, and settled near Philadelphia. His son B-en- 
jamin, who is buried, and whose will is on record at Easton, Pa., 
was the father of Daniel Shoemaker, who settled just west of 
the Water-gap in Pennsylvania -now called Broadheads -where he 
owned a custom and flouring mill. About the year 1797, he visited 
Big Flats, in Chemung county, and Painted Post.in Steuben county 
with the intention of settling there where large tracts of land 



282 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



were offered him for ninety cents an acre. But tiiere being 
nothing but an Indian trail from Athens, Pa., to that territory, he 
returned and purchased about 1,000 acres of land in this town, 
mostly squatter claims. He had but one brother, Elijah, who set- 
tled in the Wyoming valley, and who was tomahawked by Win- 
decker at the massacre of Wyoming. Daniel married Anna Mc- 
Dowell, by whom he had seven children, born as follows : Han- 
nah, February 7, 1777, who married Isaac S. Swartwood ; Eliza- 
beth, January 22, 1779, wife of George Nyce ; Benjamin, Febru- 
ary 8, 1781 ; John, March 22, 1783 ; Robert, May 20, 1785 ; Sarah, 
May 26, 1787; Elijah. July 28, 1789, once sheriff, and afterward 
associate justice of Tioga county; Nicholas, Januafy 27, 1752, who 
settled where his son William R. now lives; DanieL McD., Feb- 
ruary 24, 1795 ; who occupied the homestead of his father, where 
the cottage of John Bensley now stands; Anna,-July 8, 1797, wife 
of William Ross. Benjamin, who settled on Wappasening creek, 
in Pennsylvania, married Eunice Shaw, by whom he had seven 
children, viz.: Richard, Mary, Elijah, Samuel, Daniel, Anna, and 
John. Elijah, son of Daniel Shoemaker, married first, Phebe, 
daughter of Laban and Jane (McDowell) Blanchard,by whom he 
had seven children, viz.: Jane, widow of Washington Smith; 
George N., Nicholas, Charles McD., and Elijah B., deceased ; 
Jonathan Piatt, and Phebe, also deceased. He married second, 
Catharine Floyd, of Chemung, N. Y., by whom he had two chil- 
dren, Hannah Shoemaker, A. M., who is preceptress of Hamlin 
University, Minn., and Capt. Thomas Floyd Shoemaker, of Cali- 
fornia. Nicholas married Hannah Blanchard, by whom he had 
five children : James and Anna, deceased ; William R., and Ed- 
gar, o'f Nichols : and Caroline, wife of Col. Fred M. Shoemaker, 
of Wilkesbarre, Pa., now deceased. Daniel McD. married Maria 
Thurston, who was born in New Marlboro, N. H., May 19, 1797, 
and by whom he had five children, viz.: Hiram W , Elizabeth 
N., Horace A., who died in infancy ; Horace A., 2d, and Lyman 
T. Edgar, son of Nicholas Shoemaker, born February 23, 1837, 
married Laura A., daughter of Zina Goodsell, of this town, by 
whom he has had seven children, viz.: Caroline, Edgar, Stella, 
Zina, Mary A., who died at the age of two years ; May, and 
Fannie Maud. Horace A., son of Daniel McD. Shoemaker, re- 
ceived his early education at Kingston, Pa., and at Little Falls, 
N. Y. He studied for the profession of civil engineer, which 
profession he toUowed for nine years, during which time he was 
engaged on the N. Y. L. E. & W. R. R.; on the Blue Ridge & 



TOWN OF NICHOLS, 283 



Pendleton R. R., and on the West Branch canal. He married 
Hester L., daughter of James Comfort^ of Lanesboro, Pa., by 
whom he has three children, viz.: Rev. Hiram R. , now located 
at Naverinp, N. Y. , George Winthrop, a physician and druggist 
at Billings, Mont., and Martha E., preceptress of the Middle- 
burgh academy, Schoharie county, N. Y. 

Jonathan Hunt came from Bedford, Westchester county, N. Y., 
in 1802, and located first on what is known as the Sackett farm, 
one mile below Nichols village on the river road. He was a 
soldier of the revolution under Gen. Warren, was in the engage- 
ment at Bunker Hill and served until the close of the war. He 
was born' in Boston, Mass., about the year 1760. His wife 
Millisant Brown, was born about the same year, though the exact 
date of the birth of either is not known. They had nine children 
born as follows : Ehenezer, May 6, 1783 ; Mary wife of Peter Tur- 
ner, April 24, 1786; Willard, January 22, 1789; John, December 
22, 1791 ; Adonijah, August 10, 1793 ; Jonathan, Jr., March 4, 
1795 ; Irena, wife of James Brown, April 30, 1797 ; Seth, February 

15, 1799, and Harve}', February 15, 1801. Ebenezer^ married 
Abigail (Dodd.) White, who had by her first hiisband three chil- 
dren, viz.: Clarrissa, Seymour and Ruth ;• and by Mr. Hunt, 
Williston of this town, Henderson of Wisconsin, Phebe, wife of 
Jeremiah Armstrong, Abigail, Eliza J., and Ebenezer, Jr. Willis- 
ton married first Alida (Van Alstyne) Vorhis who died in i860. 
His present wife is Emily (Russell) Orcott. Jonathan Hunt, Jr., 
married Martha Brown, December 5, 1820, by whom he had nine 
children born as follows: Benjamin, April 8, 1823; Ezra C, 
October 27, 1824; Permelia, October 14, 1826; Susan J., October 

16, 1828, wife of Thomas Kyle; Ananjus W., June 4, 183 1 ; Andrew 
C, May 21, 1834; Thomas, June 23, 1836; Adonijah, September 
5, 1838; Martha E., April 23, 1842; Jonathan, Jr., died August 

17, 1884, and Martha, his wife January 30, 1885. Harvey Hunt 
married Mary Brown of Orange county, N. Y., by whom he had 
six children viz.: Jonathan, who died in July, 1886 ; Elizabeth, 
George F., a physician of West Bend, Wis.; Samuel, a lawyer of 
Menomonee, Wis.; Lewis, of Newark Valley, and Marcella, who, 
with her sister Elizabeth occupies the homestead. Mrs. Hunt 
died in September, 1865, and Mr. Hunt in August, 1886. Dr, 
George F., married Anna Salisbury by whom he has one son, 
Frederick. Samuel married Gelila Campbell of Owego, and 
Lewis married Lucy Buttles by whom he has two daughters, 
Lillian M. and Alice. Willard, son of Jonathan Hunt, mar- 



284 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



ried Mary, daughter of George Walker, the latter came from near 
Sunsbury, Pa., and located at Factoryville. He bought five 
hundred acres of land at that place, and then came on the river 
and purchased a tract a mile square. The homestead is the Kiff 
farm on the river road one mile from the state line. Mrs. Hunt 
had nine children viz.: Sally, Brown, Mary, Charlotte, James, 
Samuel, George, Fannie, who died at the age of three years, and 
Deles. Samuel married first Eliza Slawson of Nichols, by whom 
he had one son Julius, who died in infancy. His present wife is 
Cynthia (Loveland) Wright. James B., son of Willard Hunt 
married Catherine Sims of Sheshequin, Pa., by whom he had ten 
children viz.: Helen, Emily, Alonzo, Mary, John W., Sarah. 
Nora, Ida, Dora, and James, Jr. John W. married Maud, daugh- 
ter of Gideon P. Holman of Illinois, by whom he had two chil- 
dren viz.: Clara and EtheL Ezra C. son of Jonathan Hunt, Jr., 
married Mary, daughter of John W. Laning, March 26, 1851, and 
by whom he had two children; H. Dell, born January 2, 1852, 
wife of Frank H. Roper, and Charles F. born August 10, 1854- 
Mrs. Hunt died Febuary 4, 188 1, aged 55 years, and Charles F., 
September 21. 1862. Adonijah, son o( Jonathan Hunt, Jr., 
married Lucinda, daughter of Peter Brown of Litchfield, Pa. 
Mr. Hunt has been engaged chiefly in lumbering and farming and 
is the proprietor of a grist and saw-mill, located on road 37. 

Benjamin Lounsberry was born April 11. 1767, in Stamford, 
Conn. He lost his father at the age of four years, and his motHer 
married Jonathan Piatt and removed to Bedford, Westchester 
county, N. Y., where he remained until 1793, when he came to 
this town and selected a farm to which he brought his family the 
following year. He married Elizabeth, daughter of Jonathan 
and — ^ — (Smith) Piatt, born February 7, 1772, and by whom he 
had nine children, born as follows: Harriet, June 7, 1793, wife of 
John W. Laning; Hannah, May 23, 1795, wife of Samuel H.Dun- 
ham, now decased ; Piatt, September 18, 1797 ; Charles, July 19, 
1800; Horace, December 12, 1804; Benjamin, May 4, 1807 ; James, 
October 2, 1809; William, December-6, 1812; and Norman, May 
7, 1815. Benjamin, Sr., died May 31, 1857. 

Piatt Lounsberry married Sarah Laning, by whom he had 
eleven children, viz.: Sarah, wife of Robert Howell, Piatt, 
Jr., of Windham, Pa., Mary, Amos, of Tioga, Horace, of 
Nidhols, Prudence, wife of James Morey, of Windham, Pa., 
Betsey, wife of Andrew Hunt, of Litchfield, Pa., Benjamin, 
of Tioga, Harriet and George, of Nichols, and Enoch, who 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 285 



died at the age of twenty years. Mrs. Lounsberry died Jan- 
uary 7, 1877. On April 25, 1824, Charles, son of Benjamin 
Lounsberry, Sr., married Rachel, daughter of Thomas and Sarah 
(Chatterton) White,, who was born December 8, 1800, and, by 
whom he had five children, viz.: Benjamin, who died in infancy, 
Charles, Mary A., wife of Harvey W. Dunham, John, and Har- 
riet, who resides on the homestead, about three miles above Nich- 
ols village, on the river road. Mr. Lounsberry was a much re- 
spected citizen, and his life to the end was an exemplary one. 
He died March 21, j.872, and Mrs. Lounsberry April 10, 1870. 
William Lounsberry married Sarah Raymond, of Bedford, West- 
chester county, N. Y., by whom he had three children, viz.: 
William R , Edward W., deceased, and Jennie. He married, 
second, Julia (Knapp) Husted, now also deceased. Mr. Louns- 
berry died July 12, 1887. William R.' married Mary, daughter 
of William McKerlie, of Townsend, Ont., November 3, 1875, and 
resides on a portion of the homestead, on the river road three 
miles above Nichols. 

Thomas White came from CHnton county in [814, and located 
on the farm now occupied by Albert Robertson. He married 
Sarah Chatterton, by whom he had nine children, viz.: Nancy, 
wife ot Nathaniel Moore, William, John, Rachel, who married 
Charles Lounsberry, Catharine, who married Beniah Schoonover, 
Joseph, Marv, who married Daniel Granger, Ann (Mrs. Thomas 
Whyte), of Tioga, and Richard, of Illinois, who is the only sur- 
viving member of the family. Joseph married Fannie, daughter 
of John Smith, Sr., by whom he had four children, viz.: William 
W., Almira E., widow of Daniel Sackett, Joseph F., of Bingham- 
ton, and Frank A., wife of David B. Thomas. William W. mar- 
ried Emeline E., daughter of Andrew D. Kimber, of Waverly, 
N. Y., by whom he has one son, Louis B. 

Henry P. Coryell, son of Emanuel and Sarah (Potter) Coryell, 
married Augusta, daughter of Stephen Mills, of Barton, by whom 
he had three children, viz.: Mary, Robert P , and Charlotte. 
Robert P. married Catherine H. E. Wheelhouse, by whom he 
has one child, Henry Wheelhouse Coryell, born September 29, 
1886. 

Ursula, widow of Sylvanus Dunham, came from East Town, 
N. Y., about 1808 or 1810, and located on the river road about 
half a mile above Nichols, where Stephen Dunham now liVes. 
She had ten children, viz.: Polly, Henry, Isaac, Betsey, Wright, 
Sylvanus, Daily, Nelson, Ebenezer, and Sidney. Wright. — who 



286 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



was elected to the assembl}" in 1829, also in 1859, — married Har- 
riet Brown, by whom he had seven children, viz.: William, Amelia, 
Frances, Maria, Mary, Eben and Sarah. Eben was born on the 
old homestead, which he now owns, situated at the end of the 
bridge across the Wappasening- creek, in the south part of the 
town, in 1825. He has been engaged in mercantile business in 
Nichols for twenty-two years, and is the oldest resident merchant 
now actively engaged in business in the town. He married 
Amelia, daughter of Charles R. Brown, of Towanda, Pa., by 
whom he has had three children, viz.: Louise D., wife of Prof. 
L. O. Wiswell; Charles D., who died in infancy, and Willie B., 
who died at the age of seventeen years. 

David Briggs came from Washington county, about 1808, and 
settled in that section of the town known as Briggs's Hollow. 
There are many of his descendants in the town, especially in the 
locality settled by him. 

John Smith was born in Heidelburg, Pa., in 1769, and came to 
this county in 1798, and located on the river in Tioga on the 
farm now owned by James Steele. He married Sally, daughter 
of Richard Tilbury, by whom he had three children, viz.: Rich- 
ard, John and Henry. Richard married Katie Decker, by whom 
he had thirteen children. John married Almira, daughter of 
Joseph and Sally (Roach) Granger, of Tioga Center, by whom 
he had twelve children, viz.: Lucinda, widow of Amos Lane, 
Cornelia, widow of Abijah Ketcham, Fannie, who married Joseph 
White, George, and Adaline, who married James Howell, Charles, 
of Nichols, Emily, wife of John Leonard, of Owego, John Jr., of 
Nichols, Almira, widow of Thomas F. Goodnough, Joseph, Anna, 
wife of Alburn S. Parmelee, of Owego, and Harvey R., of 
Nichols. John, Jr., married Jane R., daughter of Cyril Pearl, in 
1852, by whom he has five children, viz.; Edna J., wife of Piatt 
Dunha,m, Jr., Clara R., wife of Frederick Pearl, Charles F., John 
Pearl and Katie. Harvey married .Fannie, daughter of Ferris 
Howes, by whom he has three daughters, Lottie, Gennie and 
Mary. Mr. Harvey Smith is a violinist and has led an orchestra and 
engaged in musical entertainments since he was sixteen years old, 
covering a period of thirty years, and from which he has realized 
sufficient to make him proprietor of " Meadowside Farm," which 
lies on the river road about half way between Owego and Nich- 
ols, having new buildings with all the modern conveniences, and 
is withal one of the most complete in its appurtenances in this 
section. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 287 

Thomas Park, who was a soldier in Washington's army, was 
engaged with his regiment at the time of the Wyoming massacre, 
when his wife, who had a child but three days old, was carried 
away captive in a canoe to Forty Fort. Mr. Park was sent 
home on a furlough by an order of the General to look after his 
family, and he joined Sullivan's expedition and pursued the sav- 
ages to Canada. The following spring, while he was' making 
sugar on his farm in Wyoming, the valley was visited by Indian 
scouts who shot him twice in the thigh, and he carried the balls 
with him to the grave. Previous to the war of the revolution, 
and when but sixteen years of age, he was engaged as a sailor in 
the English navy during the French and English war. About 
two years after the close of the revolution, he purchase^ 400 acres 
of land on the state line on the east side of the Susquehanna river. 
His son Daniel married Patt y, daughter of Luke Saunders, of 
Barton, by whom he had ten children. His second wife was. 
Nancy Ellis, by whom he had three children. Joseph, his six,th 
son, married Elizabeth, daughter of Elisha E. Hill, of Barton, and 
resides on a portion of the estate of Thomas Park. 

Stephen Reynolds came from Greenwich, Washington Co., N. 
Y., about ninet)'^ years ago, and located near the site of the mills 
at Hooper's Valley. He married Sarah Babcock, by whom he 
had thirteen children, the sixth of whom was Joseph, who is now 
seventy-nine years of age, and resides on his farfn in this town.. 
His life has been spent principally in lumbering and farming. 
His wife was Amanda, daughter of Reynolds Babcock, by whom 
he had eight children, viz.: Stephen, of Chemung ; Elizabeth, 
who died in infancy ; John S., of Nichols ; George and Curtis, 
deceased; Mary A., wife of Schuyler Bixby ; Caroline, wife of 
Francis Mills, and Alvy, both deceased. Stephen married, first, 
Sarah A. Buttolph, of Nichols, by whom he had six children, 
viz.: Joseph J., who died in infancy ; Angeline, deceased ; Albert, 
of South Owego; Isum I., ,of this town; Ella and Isaac S., 
deceased.. Isum I. married Carrie, daughter of Levi Baker, of 
Nichols, by whom he has two children, Eben and Charles Levi. 

John S., son of Joseph, married Deliverance A. Bixby, by whom 
he had four children, Amos, Enoch, Alvy and Lpttie. Mrs. Rey- 
nolds died in 1876. His present wife is Roxany Sipperly, daugh- 
ter .of Robert Fleming, of Flemingvillc. 

Wait Smith was born April 4, 1779, and in 1802 came from 
Tunkhannock, Pa., in a canoe, and settled in Smithboro, where 
Piatt and George ^F. Eckert now live. He built a shop and 



288 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



conducted the blacksmithing business there, and for many years 
his was the only blaclcsmith shop between Owego and Athens. 
He married Rachel, daughter of Ezekiel Newman, by whom he 
had eleven children, the oldest of whom, Lucinda, married James 
Waterman. Wait Smith settled above the present village of 
Smithboro ; Ward Smith and James'Smith settled there also, the 
former near the corner and the latter just below. A Benjamin 
Smith came in and settled on a farm above Wait Smith, and a 
Joshua Smith, a millwright, came in there from Vermont; Jared 
Smith, a stone-mason ; Gabriel Smith, a preacher, and a Daniel 
Smith also settled in there. None of these Smiths were related 
except Ward And James, who were brothers. In consequence 
of all these Smiths locating there the place was called Smithboro. 

John Waterman, of English descent, came from Peekskill, Ni 
Y., in the year 1800, and settled first on the place known as the 
Wright tarm, in Smithboro. His son, James, married Lucinda, 
da.ughter of Wait Smith, of Smithboro, by whom he had thir- 
teen children, born as follows: William, Aug. 22, 1819; Mellissa 
J., Sept 23, 1821 ; Alonzo C, Nov. 23, 1821; Wait S., April 23, 
1826; James O., March 25, 1828; John G., June 20, 1830; Mary 
A., July 21, 1832; Ezekiel N.. Oct. 9, 1834; Martha J., Oct. 22, 
1836; Samuel C, July 24, 1839; Sarah M., Nov. 29, 1840; Ben- 
jamin M., Aug. 2, 1842, and Helen, April 26, 1845. Alonzo C. 
married Sarah J. Parks, of Nichols, b}' whom he has seven chil- 
dren, viz.: Walter S., Martha J., Mary, Harriet, James, Elma A. 
and Margaret. John G. married Margaret, daughter of Job 
Wolverton, of Barton, March 27, 1859. and by whom he has had 
three children, born as follows: Eliza G., Jan. 2, i860, died Feb. 
8, 1879; Charles H., born Sept. 19, 1861, and Katie D., Sept. 25, 
1871. Benjamin M. married Helen L. Sears, by whom he has 
two sons, Fred and Jed, 

Sampson Howell, of Sussex — now Warren — county New Jersey, 
was born in 171 8 and died there February 3, 1803. His children were 
Sampson, Elizabeth, Isaac, James, Levina, Levi, Nathan, Garrett, 
John, Aaron, Achsa, Lucretia, and Usual O. James came to this 
town in 1806 and located first on the river road where Thaddeus 
Steward now lives. He next removed to the farm now occupied 
by Emanuel Coryell which property he traded with Elijah Cole 
for the property on Wappasening creek, recently occupied by 
John L. Howell, his son. He subsequently purchased other par- 
cels of land until his estate amounted to several hundred acres. 
He married Amelia, daughter of Robert Laning, of New Jersey, 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 289 



by whom he had six children who arrived at maturity, viz.: 
Elizabeth, William, Frances, wif*. of Stephen Morey, John L., 
Mary A, wife of William Morey, i d Robert. Robert Howell 
was born on Wappasening creek jptember 4, 1815, and at an 
early age evinced a curiosity and taste for Geology. His mind 
first awoke to the wonders of this science as he strolled, a child, 
along the creek which exposed to view a variety of curious stones, 
drift and fossils ; but the disadvantages under which the youth of 
those early days labored, forbade him to know anything of the 
secrets which lie hidden in them all. Finally, as if by the direc- 
tion of Providence, a yankee doctor brought into the country a 
work on Geology, the first ever seen in this section. The book 
was bought by a neighbor^an Englishman who had retired 
from the British army— and of him young Howell purchased the 
work, paying him therefor one hundred young apple-trees from 
his father's nursery. This vi^as his elementary text-book and the 
nucleus of a scientific library now containing several hundred 
volumns. Though his education was limited to a few quarters in 
the district schools, he ranks high amongthe scientists of his day. 
He has lectured on geology, mineralogy, paleontology and the 
animal kingdom; and has contributed much that is valuable on 
the subject of agriculture, ornithology and on native forest trees. 
For forty years he has kept a record of the weather, for twenty- 
one years for the weather bureau at Washington. He was a mem- 
ber of the American society for the Advancement of Science for 
twenty years ; his name having been presented by Prof. Aggisiz. 
He has also been a faithful collector for the Smithsonian Insti- 
tute at Washington, D. C. Though in his seventy -third year he 
manages his farm and is still a mostdiligent student, devoting the 
time not given to his farm work to scientific studies. He has 
recently been appointed by the U. S. geological survey, commis- 
sioner for Tioga county, to look up the forest resources of the 
county. He married first Rhoda, daughter of Joseph Morey, by 
whom he has one son Arthur M. His present wife is Sarah, 
daughter of Piatt Lounsberry, of this town. 

Oscar E. Farnham, son of Joel Farnham^ of Tioga, was born 
in that town Sept. 17, 1839. He received his early education 
there and at the Owego Academy. At the breaking out of the 
war he was employed on his father's farm and at the turner's 
trade. On April 19, i86i, he enlisted in Co; H, 3rd N. Y. Inf., 
and served until June, 1863, when he re-enlisted in the 5th N. Y. 
Cavalry, in which regiment he served until mustered out in July, 



290 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



1865. About one year of this time was spent in rebel prisons,' 
where he suffered untold hardships and privations. While being 
transferred in cattle cars with several hundreds other prisoners, 
he, with twenty-five of his comrades in misery, escaped by jump- 
ing from the train at Millen, Ga. All were retaken but five, four 
of whom kept together, but Mr. Farnham w^as separated from 
them and traveled alone three hundred miles through marshes, 
woods and swamps, subsisting on nuts, roots and berries, and on 
food stolen for him by colored people whom he met in his jour- 
ney. He traveled thirty-four days before he reached the Union 
lines, where he joined Sherman's army in front of Atlanta, a few 
dav^ before that city was taken. He was detailed an orderly at 
Gen. Sheridan's headquarters, in the winter of t 864-65. Mr. 
Farnham was at the battle of Big Bethel — the first real battle of 
the war — and was also present at Appomatox when Lee surren- 
dered. He married Jane Wilson, by whom he has three chil- 
dren, viz.: Minnie, wife of Charles White ; Lillian and Philip 
Sheridan. His grandfather, Joel Farnham, came from Wyoming, 
Pa., to the town of Tioga when there was but one house where 
the village of Owego now stands. He settled on the farm owned 
by the late Frederick A. Farnham, where he built a carding-mill, 
wheelwright-shop and cider-mill. He married Ruth, daughter 
of Enoch Slawson, of Newark Valley, by whom he had ten chil- 
dren. 

Henry Washburn came from Flat Brook, N. J., about the 
year 1808, and located on the farm now occupied by the widow 
of Absalom Adams, on the river road at Hooper's Valley. He 
then bought a farm of something over a hundred acres, and the 
first clearing he made was on the farm now owned by Henry 
Neal. He married Sarah Harris, by whom he had eight chil- 
dren, viz.: Noah, Nicholas, Rachel, wife of Conwell Ellis ; Hiram, 
Benjamin, Henry, Betsey, wife of Henry Riddle ; Reuben, Han- 
nah, and Esther, wife of Andrew Raising. Nicholas settled 
where John H. Washburn now lives. He married Mercy Hoo- 
ver, by whom he had eight children : Sarah, who died at the age 
of three years ; Elizabeth, wife of Hii-am Ellis ; Reuben, of Illin- 
ois; Joshua, John H., a tnember of Co. K, 109th Regt., N. Y. 
Vols.; Abiah, wife of John Barr, Jr.; William, of Nichols, and 
Mercy J., wife of Chester Ellis. George H., son of Noah Wash- 
burn, married Nettie, daughter of John Adams of Cameron 
county, Pa. 

Anna, the widow of Luther Hale, came from Bennington, Vt, 



TOWN OF NICHOLS, 291 



in 1814, having one child, Ruth, now the wife of Daniel White, 
, of this town. Mrs. Hale married Dr. William Wood, and after 
his decease, Jacob Totten. Her daughter, Ruth., married first, 
Hiram Rogers, by whom she had one child who died in infancy. 
Her second husband was Peter Goss. 

..Joshua White came from Duanesburg, N. Y., in the spring of 
1819, and located on the farm now occupied by Bretton Briggs. 
He married Rhoda Duel, by whom he had nine children, born as 
follows: Wilbur, February 15, 1787; Doris, December 22, 1789; 
William, January, 20, 1791 ; Phoebe, April 13, 1793 ; Charlotte, 
September 4, 1796: Silas, September 6, 1798 ; Daniel. August, 
10, 1801 ; Stephen, April 14, 1806; Mahala, widow of Abraham 
B. Ward, October 23, 1808. Daniel, married Maria I^orey, by 
whom he had ten children, viz.: Benjamin, who died in infancy ; 
Joseph W. and Henry, of Nichols ; Charles, of Owe.go ; Diantha, 
wife of Elihu Briggs; Piatt, of Nichols; Laura, wife of Aaron 
VanDyke; George, Perry, deceased; and Susan, wife of Dr. 
Gordon, of Sandusky, O. His present wife is Ruth (Hale) Goss; 
Joseph W., married Permelia, daughter of Jonathan Hunt, De- 
cember 25, 1845, 3nd by whom he has four children, viz.: Martha 
J., wife of John H. Wait, Benjamin F., a physician of Wells- 
boro, N. Y., Samuel H.. and Maria, wife of Fred Bostwick. 
Piatt married Fannie M., daughter of Elbridge Russell, of Owego, 
by whom he has one son, Frank P. 

Nathaniel Moore was born in New Hampshire, and when he 
was but three years of age, his parents moved to Plattsburg, in 
this state. In 1816 he removed to this town and located on what 
is known as the Moore homestead. He married Nancy, daughter 
of Thomas White, by whom he had eight children. When he 
settled here there was no land cleared between the river school 
house and his place, except a piece where J. Lounsberry's saw- 
mill now stahds. and a piece near where Benjamin Dunham's 
house now stands. This piece was sowed with Canada thistles 
for sheep pasture, the seed having been brought from Canada for 
this purpose by Joseph Densmore, who resided on the place. 

Absalom Adams, son of Rev. George Adams, who was also a 
corporal in the war of the revolution, was born in Wilkesbarre, 
Pa.,March 3, 1797. He located in Barton in 1830, where he re- 
mained until April, 1846, when he removed to this town and set- 
tled on the farm now occupied by his widow and his daughter, 
■ and |which is under the management of his grandson, 8. B. 
Adams. He married Maria Moss, by whom he had six children, 



292 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



viz.: Elizabeth S. and George Q., deceased ; Louisa M., wife of 
Henry Light, of Tioga, and Eliza (twins); Maria, wife of William 
H. Manning, of Owego ; and Horace G., of Norwich, N. Y. Mr, 
Adams died December 8, 1884. Mrs. Adams still resides on the 
homestead. 

Eben W. Whipple came from Palmer, Mass., in 1822, and 
located first in Windham, Pa., where he resided until 1829, when 
he came to this town and settled on the farm now ow^ned by his 
son, Andrew G. Whipple, on road 33. He married Nancy, 
daughter of Gid eon Gra3i^ s, a soldier of the revolutiolTTby whom 
he had eleven children, viz. ; D.Adams, of Owego; Andrew G. 
of Nichols ; Martha, who died at the age of thirteen years ; Har- 
riet, widow of Anson Dunham ; Adeline, widow of Frank Roper; 
David L., deceased ;' Mary P., wife of Levi Terbush ; Nancy, who 
died at the age of ten years; Eben, who died in infancy ; Willett, 
also deceased, and Marcia, wife of James Lounsberry, Jr. Mrs. 
Dunham married first, Robert Laning, by whom she had three 
children, viz.: Judd, who died at the age of eight years ; Willett 
S., of Chicago, 111.; and Robert F., of St. Paul, Neb. 

Joseph Ketcham came from Rensselaer count}', N. Y., very 
early in the history of this section, and settled on the farm now 
owned by Loring C. Pearl. His second son, Abijah, married 
Cornelia, daughter of John Smith, Sr., of this town, by whom 
he had seven children, viz.: T. Jefferson, deceased ; Charlotte, 
wife of La Fayette Wilhams, of Candor; Charles, of Owego; Eli 
G., of Nichols; Adelbert, of Owego; Emma, wife of Stephen 
Evans, and George, of Williamsport, Pa. Eli G. married Har- 
riet E., daughter of Anson Dunham, by whom he has three sons, 
Clarence, George and Clark. 

Peter, son of Nathaniel Brown, was born in Bedford, West- 
chester county, N. Y., Sept. 10, 1795, and when five years of age 
his father removed with his family to Orange county, N. Y. 
Here Peter married, and after several years his wife died, leav- 
ing him with a family of sixchifdren. He was a soldier of the 
war of 1 8 12 , and served at Harlem Heights. After the death of 
his wife, he removed with his family to Litchfield, Pa., where he 
married Elizabeth, daughter of Aaron Van Gorder, Aug. i, 1840, 
by whom he had five children, viz.: Levina, wife of Henry 
Morse, of Litchfield; Lucinda, wife of Adonijah Hunt, of Nich- 
ols ; Martha, wife of Abram Bennett ; Nancy, wife of Oren Park, 
of Litchfield, and S. Otis Brown, of Nichols. The latter married 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 293 



Lemira, daughter of Alanson Munn, of Litchfield, Pa., by whom 
he has two children : Hanlan Reed and Archie. 

Aaron Van Gorder came from Sussex county, N. J., in 1819, 
and settled in Tioga, near Smithboro. He married Sarah War- 
ner, by whom he had thirteen children, viz.: Jacob, Elijah, Dan- 
iel, Elizabeth, widow of Peter Brown; Ellen, Israel, Clara, Adam, 
Margaret, Mary, Horace, Charles and Allen. 

Cranston V. S., son of Isaac Bliven, was born in Windham, 
Conn., Ocl. 3, 1808. He came with his father's family to the 
town of De Ruyter, Madison county, N. Y., when about three 
years of age, and from there to Cortland county, and from 
thence to Tompkins county, after he had served an apprentice- 
ship at wagon-making. He married Caroline R., daughter of 
Joshua Gager, of Binghamton, by whom he had three children, 
Cranston, a merchant of Nichols ; Caroline R. and Eugene. Mr. 
Bliven came to this town in 1834, and established the wagon-mak- 
ing business at Hooper's Valley. He now lives retired, after 
having spent fifty years in active business here. Cranston mar- 
ried Adell, daughter of Jonathan Piatt, by whom he has two 
children, Frank C, aged fourteen years, and Bessie, aged twelve. 

Zina Goodsell was born in Catskill, N. Y., August 22, 1815, 
and when sixteen years of age came with his father's family and 
settled in Smithfield, Pa. In 1842 he married Lydia, daughter of 
Ebenezer Slawson, by whom he has had five children, viz.: Sarah 
A., deceased, William, Laura, wife of Edgar Shoemaker, Joshua, 
Jane J., wife of Charles Bostwick, of Rome, Pa. In 1844 Mr. 
Goodsell settled near the state line, on the farm now occupied 
by Eben Stanton. 

Dr. George P Cady was born in Windsor, Berkshire county, 
• Mass., January i, 1833. He received his early education at Hins- 
dale Academy; and his degree from Berkshire Medical College, 
at Pittsfield, in 1855. Soon after, he removed to Nichols, N. Y., 
and entered into partnership with his uncle, Dr. G. M. Cady, 
which partnership lasted until 1874. Here he married Susan, 
daughter of Hon. Nehemiah Piatt, by whom he has two children, 
Margaret J. and George M. 

Dr. George M.. son of Dr. George P. and Susan (Piatt) Cady, 
was born in Nichols in 1865. He received his education here and 
at Binghamton, and graduated from the New York Medical Uni- 
versity in 1887. He is in partnership with his father and is junior 
member of the firm of Latha.m & Cady, druggists. 

Dr. Edward, son of Levi Pease, was born in Windham, Pa., in 



294 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



October, 1851. He was educated there and at Rome, Pa. He 
studied medicine with Dr. Warner, of Le Raysville, Pa., and 
with Dr. Cady, of this place. He graduated from the Medical 
College of Ann Arbor, Mich., in 1873. He has practiced here 
since September i, 1874. 

Early Items. — The settlers, whether poor or otherwise, had 
to undergo all the hardships and privations incident to the 
life of the emigrant. They had to make their wav from wilder- 
ness to civilized country with very little help. They lived very 
much upon their own resources. Nearly all the clothing for 
their families, as well as the supply of articles necessary to sup- 
port life, were produced at home. For many years there was no 
store nearer than Athens, Pa., or Owego, where articles of general 
merchandise were sold, and an expedition to either of these places, 
which could onl}' be undertaken in the winter when there was 
sleighing, was an arduous undertaking for the house-wife, and 
not to be entered upon more than once or twice a year. And 
everything, too, had to be done by hand — there was no machinery. 
Carding, spinning, weaving and sewing in-doors, and sowing, 
reaping, mowing and threshing, on the farm. There were no 
fanning-mills, even the winnowing of the grain had to be done by 
a hand fan. This was an implement made of basket work about 
three feet in diameter; about one-half its circumference flat, and 
the remainder turned up like a basket, and holding perhaps half a 
bushel of grain. The person using it took it between his hands, 
by the two handles on either side, like those of a corn basket, and 
shaking it up and down separated the chaff towards the flat part 
of the fan, where it could be brushed off or carried away with the 
wind. This must, one would think, have been a somewhat slow 
process, and it must have taken a man some time to " thoroughly 
purge his floor " of any quantity of grain. The nearest grist- 
mill was for a long time several miles away, up the Chemung 
river. Whenever a grist was wanted, a messenger, generally a 
boy, was put on horse-back with a bag of wheat behind him and 
sent to mill. When he arrived there, as the mill was small, he 
had to wait his turn among other customers. If the water was 
low, he frequently had to come home without his grist, and thus the 
mistress of the house was often days together without bread, hav- 
ing to supply its place with potatoes or other vegetables, or rice, 
of which edible some of the good house- wives with a view to 
such exigencies, sometimes contrived to keep a store on hand. 
Crab apples and wild plums grew in the fields, and berries of all 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 295 



kinds, including strawberries, were plentiful. These made the 
delicacies of the table. 

Facilities for education could scarcely be said to exist at all. 
The state had as yet made no provision for the instruction of its 
children, and the settlers had to take up with such teachers and 
such schools as they were able to procure. These schools could 
only be taught during the summer, in some barn or other out-of- 
door building fitted up temporarily for the purpose, the teacher 
being some transitory person who had found his way into the 
country, and had no other employment, or some one of the in- 
habitants who could sometimes be induced by the necessities of 
the time, to devote a few weeks or months to the instruction of 
the children. Occasionally we hear of a lady being tngaged in 
some of the families as private instructress. At one time, for 
several successive summers, the children of Judge Coryell, and 
probably others, were sent across the river to a school near Smith- 
boro. The first school-house in the town, we are told by one of 
our local histories, was a log school-house which stood on what 
is now the farm of Samuel Smith, up the river. The first one 
that we hear of elsewhere stood at a turn in the road about half 
a mile below the residence of Judge Coryell. This however, 
must before long have disappeared, as we next hear of the children 
walking two or three miles to a school on what is now the farm 
of Harvey Dunham. This also must have been removed, and the 
next we have any knowledge of was in the village of Nichols. 
We do not know exactly at what time the first public school law 
of the state was passed, but as we find mention made in 1812, of 
a superintendent of public instruction, it probably dates not far 
from that time. The town must then first have been divided into 
districts. The one which comprised the village of Nichols orig- 
inally included those immediately above and below it, on the 
river. The one below was set off first, and a school-house was 
built which, ^fter' being removed once or twice, was finally fixed 
at Hooper's Valley, where there is a very good school building. 
The one above was, after a time, set off into a district by itself, 
but was finally made a part of it again at a later period. We 
have no record of the building of the school-houses in the other 
districts of the town, but the one in Dist. No. i, the extreme 
western district on the river must have been built early ; and the 
old 'line school-house," which is so called from its position near 
the state line, in the district up the Wappasening, has probably 
stood more than half a century. These schools throughout the 
ao* 



296 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 

town must have been of an inferior character in very many- 
instances. They were supplemented by occasional select schools 
of more or less merit ; but these finally disappeared with the 
establishment of the graded school in the village of Nichols. 

The comparative growth of the town is shown by the follow- 
ing figures, giving the census enumeration for the years men- 
tioned : 1825, 951; 1830, 1,284; 1835, 1,641; 1845, 1,924; 1850, 
1,905; 1855, 1,871; i860, 1,932; 1865, 1,778; 1870, 1,663; 1875, 
1,687; 1880, 1,709. 

Organization. — Nichols was set off from Tioga and organized 
as a separate township, March 23, 1824. Owing to the destruc- 
tion by fire of the town records,^ we are debarred from giving the 
customary proceedings of the first town-meeting. The burning 
of the building in which the records were kept, together with 
its contents, occurred in 1864, during the clerkship of Luther 
Conant. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Nichols Village is situated near the Susquehanna, at the 
point where the highway running parellel to that river, is joined 
by the one running north from the Pennsylvania line. At the 
time of the arrival of Dr. Barstow, in 1812, the lumber trade 
which afterwards became one of the prominent industries of the 
county, had made little more than a beginning. But southern 
New York and northern Pennsylvania were rapidly filling up 
with a hardy race of pioneers before whom the forests were soon 
to disappear. Besides the mills of Caleb Wright, mentioned 
before, at the mouth of the Wappasening, James Howell an 
emigrant from New Jersey, whose sons J. L. Howell and Robert 
Howell are still living among us, built or purchased one up the 
stream about a mile distant from the river. Mills were also built 
at various points along the creek both in Nichols and in the 
adjoining County of Bradford, Pa. All the lumber manufactured 
at these mills had to find its way down the creek to the river to 
the various landings where it was to be rafted; that is, made into 
floats or "arks" to be sent down the river. The junction of 
these two great highways of the country nearly midway between 
the eastern and western extremities of the town, seemed to pre- 
sent a central point where a village might grow up. The dwell- 
ers on the hills as well as those in the valley, began to feel the 
want of some nearer place than the neighboring towns, where 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 297 



they could obtain the articles necessary for the convenience and 
comfort of their families. They wanted stores and shops ; they 
wanted a resident physician. They wanted mechanics, and they 
wanted schools. The place was ready. ; there was only lacking 
some person of sufficient energy to take advantage of the situa- 
tion, and the right man finally came. The ground on which the 
village was built was at this time pretty well cleared up, though 
the woods approached it on the south and west. 

Gamaliel H. Barstow, so long and prominently known both in 
the town and in the county, was an emigrant from Connecticut. 
He was born on one of the hardest and rockiest farms in the 
town of Sharon, Litchfield county, in 1784. He lived and worked 
on his father's farm until past his majority, when h#left it and 
went to Great Barrington, Mass., to the house of his brother, 
Dr. Samuel Barstow, where he applied himself to the study of 
medicine. He had had at the age of seventeen a great desire to 
study law, but his father objected so strongly, having a prejudice 
against lawyers, — by no means peculiar to himself at that time — 
who, he thought, were men who got their living without work, 
and, therefore, could not be honest, that he was obliged to give 
up the idea. This was much to be regretted, as the peculiar 
bent of his mind rendered him much more capable of attaining 
success in this profession than the one he finally adopted. He, 
however, went so far as to procure a copy of Blackstone's Com- 
mentaries, of the contents of which he made himself master. This 
knowledge proved of the greatest possiblle value to him in sub- 
sequent years. He was accustomed to say that he would never 
have been able to fill the places in the Legislature and on the 
Bench, to which he was afterward called, without it. Having 
remained with his brother until he obtained his degree in 181 1, 
he turned his thoughts towards the West, that being then, as 
now, the great field where young men sought fame and fortune. 
He first came to Wysox, Bradford county, in northern Pennsyl- 
vania, where his brother, Dr. S. T. Barstow, settled some years 
before. Here he remained some months while making his observ- 
ations and looking about for some eligible place where he could 
finally pitch his tent; and hearing at length of the settlement on 
the Susquehanna in the adjoining county of Tioga, where there 
seemed to be a good opening for a physician and a man of enter- 
prise, he determined, without seeing the country, to try his for- 
tune tbere. Having made this decision, with characteristic, 
energy he returned at once to Connecticut to make his prepara- 



298 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



tions for emigration to this new scene of action. These were 
few, as the journey was made in a one-horse wagon, which car- 
ried beside himself, such articles as he deemed necessary to the 
practice of his profession in a new country, and also certain arti- 
cles ■ of merchandise with which he proposed to add to his 
resources in a country where shops were not. With this modest 
equipment he left his father's house in Novemtier, in the year 
181 1, to make a journey of more than two hundred miles, over 
bad roads in severe weather, to an unknown country. He crossed 
the Hudson at Coxsackie ; we are not told his route, but it 
brought him to Owego and thence to the Wappasening. He 
passed through the country and went directly to the house of his 
brother, on the Wysox. Here he remained a few weeks to rest, 
and then adding a few hundred dollars' worth of goods from his 
brother's store to those he had brought with him, he returned to 
his place of destination and took up his quarters at the house of 
Jacob Middaugh, where he arrived the 7th of January, 1812. 
Here he hired a couple of rooms, one for an office and store and 
the other for a bedroom, and Mr. Middaugh having agreed to 
board him, he there began his long career in the valley of the 
Susquehanna. His accommodations were limited, and his board 
by no means luxurious, but he has often been heard to say, that 
blessed with health and hope and indomitable courage, the 
months that he spent there were among the happiest of his Hfe. 

The ground where the village now stands was, as we have 
said, a part of that purchase by Caleb Wright. It was now, at 
least a part of it, in the possession of Robert Williams, a son-in- 
law of Mr. Wright. He owned the land on the east side of the 
street running south to the foot of the rising ground which for 
some years seemed to form the boundary to the village in that 
direction. This was sold in acre lots to the emigrants as they 
came in, there being eight between the corner and the foot of the 
hill. Dr. Barstow purchased the corner lot, for which he paid the 
sum of one hundred dollars. Opposite this corner on the river 
side stood a log house, occupied by Simmons Clapp, while a few 
rods farther up stood another, belonging to Mr. Williams him- 
self. There had, until this time, been no resident physician south 
of the river, and Dr. Barstow's presence in the town becoming 
known, he was soon in the enjoyment of considerable practice, 
which constantly increased. The prospect of ultimate success 
soon became so encouraging that he very soon built a house, and 
about a year after his arrival he married a daughter of Judge 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 299 



Coryell and commenced house-keeping. He soon after put up- 
another building for a store and office. 

The next arrival that we hear of was George Kirby, who had 
been an acquaintance and intimate friend of Dr. Barstow in 
Great Barringtbn. One day, in the summer of 1814, he sur- 
prised his friend by driving up to his door with very much such 
a horse and wagon as had brought him into the country, and 
laden, too, with materials for his business. He purchased land 
nearly opposite that of Dr. Barstow, on the river street, where 
he built a house. The next summer he returned to Massachu- 
setts for his wife and child. Mr. Kirby was by trade a shoe- 
maker, which proved a most lucrative business, and he was soon 
able to build a tannery, and afterwards a large builditig for the 
manufacture and sale of shoes. To these he added other indus- 
tries and was soon one of Nichols' most prosperous men! He 
built the first steam mill in the town, a few years after. 

Other emigrants came in, and the lots belonging to Mr. Will- 
iams were soon sold. The land on the opposite side of the street, 
which probably still belonged to Mr. Wright, extending south 
from the river street some twenty or thirty rods, was for a long 
time unsold and unenclosed. This strip, with the exception of 
the upper part, or church lot, eventually came into, the posses- 
sion of the heirs of Major Piatt, and was enclosed for building 
purposes. Among those who purchased lots of Mr. Williams 
previous to 1820 were Captain Peter Joslin, Dr. John Petts, Dr. 
John Everitt, James Thurston, Isaac Raymond, Joshua Brown, 
and many others whose names are yet heard in the town. 

Henry and Wright Dunham, two of a numerous family of 
brothers who came into the town at different times from Madi- 
ison county, purchased farms up the Wappasening, where Henry 
Dunham, who was a son-in-law of Caleb Wright, built a grist- 
mill, in 1822, which is still owned by his son-in-law, Samuel Dun- 
ham, Silvenus Dunham, who came later, built a carding ma- 
chine and' fulling-mill, which were for years the only ones in the 
town. 

Not far from 1820, Major Piatt left his farm up the river, and 
came down to " The Corners," by which euphonious appellation 
the village was long known by those living out of it, and built a 
very good house where he kept a hotel up to the time of his 
death, in 1825. This house, which must now be the oldest in the 
village, and is still one of the best, is at present occupied for the 
same purpose by a grandson of Major Piatt, who bears his name. 



300 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



A Store and house were also built directly opposite, which were 
occupied soon after by Nehemiah Piatt, who was a prosperous 
merchant and business man for a good many years. 

In 1819 Dr. Barstow purchased the homestead farm of Caleb 
Wright, then recently deceased, of his grandson, James Wright. 
This is believed to have been nearly the last piece remaining of 
the ol'd man's originally large property. This added farming to 
Dr. Barstow's already varied business. He not long after this 
built a distillery, which probably did not pay, as it was soon 
abandoned. He also erected a small building on the Wright farm 
for the manufacture of potash, which he carried on for some 
years, sending a considerable quantity every year to New York. 
This, too, finally became unprofitable, and was given up. In 1833 
he purchased the mills at the mouth of the creek, of John Cassell. 
Although the town was fast becoming agricultural, yet a large 
lumber trade from a considerable part of the country round about 
centered there for many years, and its purchase and sale neces- 
sarily made a large part of the businesss of the merchant, and 
sometimes of the farmer, as it constituted an important and fre- 
quently the only medium of exchange between them and poor 
settlers, while he was trying to turn his own land into a farm. 
The production of lumber, taking it from the felling of trees in 
the woods, to its sale in the markets of Southern Pennsylvania, 
was a most laborious pursuit, involving not only hard work, but 
often a good deal of risk to life and limb. The trade helped to 
develop the resources of the country, and many of those engaged 
in it, made it very profitable, though few made fortunes; and 
when it finally gave place to the cultivation of the soil, the coun 
try was more prosperous. It yet has its place among the indus- 
tries of the country, but the manner of carrying it on has entirely 
changed. Previous to 1825, all the goods purchased in New York 
by the merchants of our town had to be brought by teams from 
Catskill on the Hudson. In that year the completion of the Erie 
canal brought them to Ithaca, which was within a two days jour- 
ney, one going and one coming. In 1833 the Ithaca and Owego 
railroad brought them to Owego, which was very near home. In 
1852 the Erie railroad brought them to Smithboro, and now the 
D., L. & W. road brings them to our doors. So much for the 
march of modern improvement. 

Dr. Barstow not long after becoming a house- holder, was ap- 
pointed justice of the peace, his first commission being for' the 
town of Owego. It was during the same year that the territory 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 301 



south of the river was made a part of Tioga. In the year 1815, 
and the two succeeding years, he was elected to the assembly of 
the state, and soon after that to the senate, the members of which 
body then held their places for four years. In 1818 he succeeded 
Judge Coryell as first judge of the county, and was in 1825, and 
again in 1838, elected by the legislature treasurer of the state. 
During the frequent absences from home which these positions 
required, it became necessary to find some person who could 
attend to his affairs at home, and at his solicitation. Dr. John 
Everitt, a young man just commencing the practice of medicine 
in his native town of Sharon, Conn., came to Nichols, and was 
taken in by him as partner, and became a member of his family. 
This gentleman, two years after, married a daughtef of Judge 
Coryell, and settled in Nichols. Becoming discontented, however, 
after a while, for some reason, he went back with his wife and 
family to the East, and lived for some years in Duchess county, 
N. Y. He returned eventually to Nichols, where his descend- 
ants still live. Dr. Barstow, who was never fond of his profession, 
gave it up entirely before the departure of Dr. Everitt, and Dr. 
Petts, who was by this time settled in the village with a wife, had 
the monopoly of the profession until the arrival of Dr. John Chub- 
buck, who came in to the village about 1830 or 1831. 

In T824, as we have shown, the town was set off from Tioga 
and received an organization of its own. The village had been 
called Rushville by Dr. Barstow, in honor of Dr. Rush, of 
Philadelphia, the founder of the system of medical practice most 
in vogue at that day. The town would probably have received 
this name, but when it came to the establishment of the postoffice, 
it was discovered that there was already a town of that name in 
the state, in Yates county ; a new name therefore had to be found. 
It was finally called Nichols, in honor of Colonel Nichols, who 
was then in possession of the rights as patentee, which formerly 
vested in Colonel Hooper. In return for this compliment. Col. 
Nichols directed Judge Coryell to give $200.00 to the town to be 
used as it pleased in the erection of some public building. This 
was filially used towards the building of the church. The first 
postmaster in the new town was Charles R. Barstow. Until this, 
time there was no postoffice south of the river, the mails for the 
town all. being brought from Smithboro. There was probably at 
that time a new mail line established from Owego through 
Nichols to Towanda, the county, seat of Bradford. There was 
certainly such a one in operation in 1830, bringing us a mail about 



302 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



three times a week. About that time a passenger coach and four 
horses was put on it, but probably did not prove a success and 
before long was taken off. There was for a time a postoffice estab^ 
lished at Canfield Corners, about four miles up the river on this 
same line, but it was removed before many years. There is now 
another office in the southeastern part of the town called East 
Nichols. 

The clearing up of the forests had left the country covered 
with pine stumps. To get rid of these unsightly objects became 
a problem of no small magnitude. The stumps of other trees . 
would soon decay and were easily removed, but the roots of the 
pine which extended to an immense distance from the trunk and 
were filled with turpentine, it used to be said would last forfever. 
Various attempts were made at a somewhat early period in the 
histor)' of the village to invent some machine for pulling them ; 
but without success. The science of mechanics was not perhaps 
well understood, as no one seemed able to hit upon any method 
by which sufficient power could be obtained to dislodge these 
"old settlers." It was finally reserved for Mr. Briggs, a black- 
smith in the village of Nichols, about the year 1832, to invent such 
a machine. It consisted of a number of cogged wheels of iron of 
graduated sizes working into each other, the power being obtained 
by what is known in mechanics as the "decrease of motion." In 
this way he constructed a machine of immense power which, 
worked by a single yoke of oxen, not only pulled up the stumps 
with their tremendous roots, but was also applied to the moving 
of houses. By the aid of this machine, which has since then been 
simplified and improved, but which, it is believed, was the first 
successful invention of the kind, the face of the country improved 
rapidly, and the value of the farms very much increased. The 
stumps being drawn, it then became a question as to what was to 
be done with them. It was almost an endless task to burn them, 
though that often had to be done. A few were thrown into the 
river, but the freshets instead of carrying them down to the sea, 
floated them, up on the flats. At length some shrewd genius con- 
ceived the idea of making them into fences, which proved a great 
success. They were placed side by side, the roots all the same 
way, and when placed along the highway these roots towering 
into the air sometimes ten or twelve feet presented a not unpic- 
turesque appearance, and constituted a barrier which might 
amost have turned an invading army. This machine ought to 
have brought its inventor a fortune, but he left the town not long; 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 303 



after its completion, and the writer has no knowledgof his subse- 
quent history. 

The village after 1825 improved rapidly, until then it contained 
but few houses of much size or pretention. In the year 1827, 
Mr. Kirby built the house on River street now in possession of 
his son-in-law Mr. Smith. Soon after, Nehemiah Piatt, a son of 
Major Piatt, and the only one of his sons who made Nichols his 
home, built the large brick house occupied by his family so long, 
and now in possession of his son-in-taw, Dr. G. P. Cady. These 
were followed within a few years by Doctor Petts, C. R. Bars- 
tow, and George Coryell, who erected houses which are still 
among the best in the village ; others were enlarged and im- 
proved and trees began to be planted. To Doctor Petts must be 
given the credit of having set out the first of the maples which 
now shade our streets. They were placed in front of his own 
house, now owned and occupied by Mr. De Groat. The house 
now belonging to Eben Dunham was long occupied as a hotel by 
Isaac Raymond, and afterwards by Peter Joslin, where good 
quarters and excellent entertainment were always to be had. Dr. 
Barstow built his house on River street in line with those of Mr. 
Kirby and Mr. Piatt, in 1835. His old house, every vestige of 
which has disappeared, is worth a description as having been the 
beginning of the village. It extended from east to west with 
three front doors looking towards the north. Over the two 
toward the west was a low veranda surrounded by banisters 
except a space where three or four steps led down to a small 
door yard in which stood several large locusts. The eastern part 
which was built after the other, had over the door a small two 
storied portico, the upper part surrounded by a railing with a 
door opening into the chamber above. One like it, probably 
could not now be found in the country. A wing extended 
towards the south opening on the other street. It was used some 
years after Dr. Barstow left it as a hotel ; the yard was thrown 
open and the trees having some time before been destroyed by 
the locust worm it became a part of the public street which in 
this way acquired a greater width in that direction than it has 
below the opposite corner. George Wilson, a son-in-law of Mr. 
Kirby, about the same time fitted up a residence just above that 
of Dr. Petts. He finally became the owner of the property of 
Dr. Petts, which he occupied till the time of his death, in 1850. 
Harvey Coryell built the house on the hill now in possession of 
Mrs. Elsbree. He occupied this house until the death of his 



304 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



father, Judge Coryell, in 1835, when he removed to the home- 
stead farm, and the widow and unmarried daughters of Judge 
Cor3'ell took possession of the house he had left. The hotel on 
the corner was built in 1838 by Mr. Piatt. These men were 
then, and for some years afterwards the principal, business men 
of the vill^-ge and their names are identified with much Of its 
history. 

Our business men since then have been O. A. Barstow, P. H. 
Joslin, Selim Kirby, J. .L.. Howell, Eben Dunham, Harris 
Brothers, C. Bliven, Edward Joslin, C. I. Sherwood, John R. 
Edsall, general merchants; Joslin & Alden, A. A. Swinton, and 
Colraan & Horton, dealers in stoves and hardware; Cady & 
Latham, druggists ; L. Conant, dealer in shoes, besides several 
dealers in groceries. 

C. R. Barstow was a son of Dr. Samuel Barstow, of Great 
Barrington, Mass. He came to Nichols while a boy,- and grew 
up in the family of Dr. Barstow, his father's brother. He was a 
partner of his uncle in the mercantile business for a while before 
going into business for himself. In 1844, he was elected sheriff 
of the county, and removed to Owego. At the end of his term 
as sheriff he was elected member of the assembly, after which 'he 
was made postmaster at Owego, and after his removal from that 
office occupied for a time the post of harbor-master in New 
York. He finally returned to Owego. He married a grand- 
daughter of Major Piatt, by whom he had a large family of 
children, all of whom he outlived, except a son and daughter. 
He sent three sons into the army, two of whom never returned. 
The survivor, Capt. Sumner Barstow, , finally settled at Big 
Rapids, Mich., where his father died in 188 — . The daughter is 
the wife of Hon. Thomas C. Piatt. 

Oliver A. Barstow, a brother of C. R. Barstow, came to Nich- 
ols, too, while yet little more than a boy, and lived some years in 
the family of his uncle. He was also for a time his uncle's part- 
ner. He at length married a daughter of Edmui^d Palmer and 
commenced business for himself as a merchant, and has been one 
of our most enterprising and successful men. He was a member 
of assembly, in 1866, and was previous to 1884, for forty years, a 
member of the board of justices of the county of Tioga. A man 
who has been elected by the popular vote so man};^ times, to till 
such an office, may be said to have possessed the confidence of 
the community in which he lives. He has for some time retired 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 30S 

from active business and makes his home with his daughter at 
Hooper's Valley. 

The exact period at which the first school-house was built in 
the village is uncertain, but it was probably as early as 1 817. It 
stood on the lower corner of the unoccupied ground before re- 
ferred to, directly opposite the spot now occupied by the Bar- 
stow house. This vacant ground —a green, as it was called — 
served for many years as a charming place of recreation for the 
school children and young people of the village. Th,e house con- 
sisted of but one moderate-sized room, with a singlfe row of desks 
built against the wall, with a row of benches in front which were 
without backs, so that the scholars who practiced writing could 
sit with their faces either way, and another row in frqnt for the 
smaller children. It was warmed in winter by a large fire- 
place at one end, and was entered- by a door having a wooden 
latch, which was raised by a leather string. This primitive tem- 
ple of learning must have stood some ten or fifteen years when 
the fire-place gave place to a stove, and the interior was altered 
so as to accommodate a greater number of scholars, and the 
house was painted red. The "old red school-house" stood until 
the growth of the village seemed to demand its removal and the 
erection of a new one. The exact year is not remembered, but 
it must have been about 1844 or 1845. This new one was built on 
the west side of the street, about half way between the corner 
and the foot of the hill, at the cost of two hundred dollars. A 
building of this kind was very soon entirely inadequate to the 
wants of the village. It was occupied, however, until 1871. A 
lot on Cady avenue was then purchased of Dr. G. M. Cady for 
the sum of five hundred dollars, and the present school building 
erected at a cost of four thousand, where a graded school has 
been maintained since 1874. 

The town in 1856 contained 13 school districts, and the entire 
amount of public money that year was $807.78, and the allotment 
to District No. 2, which comprised the village of Nichols, was 
$82.70. There are at present, 1887, 12 districts. No. 2, and No. 3 
extending a mile up the river having been consolidated. This 
year the public money for the village district alone is $440.73. 
The gross amount of salaries for the three teachers in the graded 
school is $960.00 

The Susquehanna river though a beautiful stream, renowned 
in poetry and song, has yet been found by the dwellers on its 
banks, very often a troublesome neighbor. For many years its 



306 ^ TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



waters during the spring freshets though often overflowing its 
banks did no very great damage. But with the receding of the 
forests, these became more sudden and violentj and frequently 
came into the streets in the lower part of the village. In 1865 it 
reached the point of inundation, invading the houses and causing 
general consternation and a good deal of damage. Since then it 
has twice been in the streets, the last time in seventy-two — since 
which a long succession of dry seasons has given us a rest from 
these inflictions. The Wappasening creek was, we are told at 
the first settlement of the country a narrow stream that was 
crossed by a fallen tree. The clearing up of the country has 
transformed it into a raging torrent coming down in the spring 
time with a fury that sweeps everything before it,' The first 
bridge, which was nearly as long again as the present one, must 
have been built not long after the settlement of the village. The 
force of the stream made constant repairs necessary, and it was 
at least entirely rebuilt before 1865. The inundation of that year 
swept it entirely away. It was then rebuilt and shortened, the 
upper half being replaced by a causeway. The ends of this 
bridge being, like the others, insecure and needing constant re- 
pair, it was finally in 1882 replaced by the fine iron bridge which 
at present spans the stream. An iron bridge was built the same 
year across the same stream a mile above the village. The New 
York and Erie railroad which reached Smithboro in 1851, did a 
great deal for Nichols although the nearest station was two miles 
distant. There being no capitalists at Smithboro to take advan- 
tage of its position, the grain trade from a considerable extent of 
country centred at Nichols where our merchants, principally 
Barstow and Kirby, operated for a time so largely as to control 
the market on the Central Division of the road. This furnished 
employment to a great many persons, brought a good many new 
inhabitants into the town and gave an impetus to trade beneficial 
alike to town and country. Some of our best business establish- 
ments date from about this time. 

In 1852, the old Owego and Towanda Mail line was discon- 
tinned and a daily mail established between Smithboro and 
Nichols. The mails are now carried from Nichols by a tri-weekly 
line to some of the towns in Bradford county. There is no 
direct line at present between Nichols and Towanda. 

In 1868 the main street of the village was well built up from the 
corner to the foot of the hill, a distance of rather more than a 
hundred rods. The lower ground on the creek, on the east of 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 307 



the. village, prevented its being built up much farther on the river 
street, in that direction. Beyond the bridge it has, however, been 
a ^ood deal built up since that time. That part of the street ex- 
tending toward the west was gradually being occupied, and more 
room for building lots seemed to be called for; and during this 
year several new streets were laid out. Cady avenue, which 
runs from the upper end of River street toward the south, till it is 
joined by Piatt street, which connects it with the main street at 
the foot of the hill. West avenue leaves the river street about 
sixty rods west from the corner, and running south joins Howell 
street, which connects it with the main street. Walnut street 
runs from Howell street towards the south into one of the old 
streets commonly called the back street, which run% from the 
main street towards the hill on the west of the town. The two 
older streets have never been formally named, but are commonly 
called the Main and the River streets. Other names have been 
suggested, but these will probably remain. A short street con- 
nects the main street with Cady avenue about midway between 
the corner and the foot of the hill, and tv\^o short streets have 
since been laid out between the river street and the depot. The 
new streets were well laid out, planted with trees, and very soon 
built up, and now offer some of the most attractive residences in 
the village. 

Dr. George M. Cady came to Nichols in 1847. His nephew 
George P. Cady came a few years later. He studied medicine 
in the office of his uncle and elsewhere and after taking his degree 
became his uncle's partner. These gentlemen both became sons- 
in-law to the Hon. Nehemiah Piatt. In 1884 Dr. G. P. Cady 
purchased the property on the corner formerly owned by 
Dr. Barstow, and erected the brick block which bears his name. 
This block contains, on the ground floor, Cady & Latham's drug 
Store, the dry goods store of Edward Joslin, and the Doctor's 
office. The second story contains three suits of living rooms, 
while the third consists of a fine hall for public meetings and 
public gatherings of all kinds ; something the village had long 
wanted": The two adjoining stores, the grocery store of Mr. 
Westbrook, and the large hardware store containing the post- 
office, which were built soon after, with the broad plank walk ex- 
tending in front of the entire line of stores at that end of the 
street, which was built at the same time, has greatly improved 
the appearance of the town. On the death of Mr. Kirby, which 
occurred in 1864, the two large buildings on the street below his 



308 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



house, which he built for the convenience of his business, were 
removed, leaving an unbroken line of residences on that street, 
and a continiious line of view up the street. The D. L. & W. 
railroad, which was built in 1882, passed through the village 
between the street and the river, destroying the succession of 
fine orchards which formed the background of the village in 
that direction. In their place we have the railroad depot with 
its usual adjuncts. Mr. John Fenderson has built a steam-mill 
near the depot, and a creamery has also been established by a Mr. 
Baker, from New York city. Immense quantities of lumber, 
bark, and pressed hay, andother produce, are constantly shipped 
to New York, and the business done here is probably greater 
than at any other station between Binghamton and Elmira. But 
with all its benefits it has not been altogether advantageous. It 
has cut up some of our farms very much to their injury, and its 
frequent crossings of the highway has nearly spoiled the fine drive 
up and down the river. 

Hooper's Valley.— In 1828, Thomas Pearsall, with two 
brothers, Gilbert and Nathaniel Pearsall, came to Nichols from 
Chenango county, and purchased landed estate along the river, 
a mile and a half below the village. He built mills on the river, 
opened a store and invested largely in the lumber trade, and at 
the same time became instrumental in getting up the Nichols 
and Smithboro Bridge Company. These various enterprises in- 
volved the employment of a great many hands, and brought to- 
gether a great many persons, mechanics and laboring men, and a 
little village soon sprang up along the street facing the river — 
the handsome house of Mr. Pearsall standing at the lower ex- 
tremity. This village, which was supposed to be the beginning 
of a much larger one, which might in time rival its neighbor at 
the corner, received the name of Hooper's Valley, in honor of 
the original patentee. But Mr. Pearsall failed in business; the 
store was closed and the mill changed hands. Many persons 
who had purchased village lots gave them up and went elsewhere, 
ai|d the growth of the village ceased. Gilbert Pearsall, however, 
retained possession of the real estate, and the village, in the 
midst of a rich farming country, maintained its existence. The 
mills were purchased by Mr. Higley who, in their place, estab- 
lished a fulling-mill and carding machine. These were a few 
years after destroyed by fire. The almost total cessation of the 
domestic manufacture of woolens in the-town, rendered fulling- 
mills no longer profitable or even necessary. Mr. Dunham's had 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 309 



some time before ceased work, and Mr. Higley's were never re- 
built. In 1854, a postoffice was established at Hooper's Valley 
for the benefit of the lower part of the town, which has, from 
that circumstance, come to be known by the name of the village, 
in the neighboring- towns. In 1875, Mr. L. Burr Pearsall, a son 
of Gilbert Pearsall, built the steam saw and planing-mill now in 
operation there. He also built, some years before, a handsome 
dwelling house at the upper end of the village. Hooper's Val- 
ley is "now a busy little village, with a public school and several 
shops and some pretty houses, although it does not promise ever 
to become much larger than at present. Mr. Thomas Pearsall 
was the principal agent in the formation of the Nichols and 
Smithboro Bridge Company, which built the first bridge over 
the Susquehanna, in 183 1. It was destroyed by a freshet the 
ensuing winter. It was rebuilt, to be again swept away in 1837. 
It was again rebuilt, but remained standing only until 1865, when 
the excessive floods of that year again swept it away a third 
time. Being of the utmost importance to the town and village 
of Nichols, especially after the building of the Erie railway, it 
was immediately rebuilt. It was, however, doomed to final de- 
struction by the waters. In 1880, the northern half of it was 
carried away. The building of the D. L. & W. railroad the 
next spring, on the Nichols side of the river, made the bridge to 
Smithboro no longer a necessity, and it was not again rebuilt. 
As the mails, however, still continued to be brought on the Erie 
road, a rope ferry was established near the place where the bridge 
had stood. 

Mr. Nehemiah Piatt died in 1850. He had been a politician of 
some note, and was at one time a member of the State Senate 
from the sixth senatorial district. He had a large family, to whom 
he left a considerable estate. His eldest son is a citizen of Nich- 
ols, occupying the house of his grandfather. His own house is 
occupied by his son-in-law, Dr. G. P. Cady. 

Dr. Barstow died in i865' at the age of eighty years. He was 
well known in both state and county political circles, and his 
career at 'home is identified with the history of the village, and 
for a considerable period with that of the town. In all things 
done for its improvement he had an interest and took a pride in 
its development. During his fifty years' residence here he had 
seen many and great changes, and many of them he had helped 
to bring about. But he outlived most of his contemporaries, an'd 
was wont to complain somewhat sadly of the loneliness of his old 



3IO TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



age. He had the misfortune to outlive both his sons. His eldest, 
Samuel Barstow, was educated as a lawyer, and going west set- 
tled in the city of Detroit, Mich. Here he acquired considerable 
eminence as a lawyer, and was for some years a man of infiueiice 
in that city, but died in 1854. He left a son who outlived his 
grandfather, but died unmarried at the age of twenty-six years. 
The second son, John C. Barstow, who was at one time the vil- 
lage postmaster, died unmarried at his father's house in 1862. 
His life was saddened by these domestic losses, and also by the 
war of the, rebellion which swept away many young relatives in 
whom, in the absence of sons of his own, he took a pride. The 
Coryell and Barstow families that from their numbers and long 
residence in the town exercised, ^t one time, a controlling influ- 
ence in its affairs, have ,now nearly disappeared. The few that 
remain of the first seem destined to become fewer, while of the 
second but two of the name now survive in the town where there 
were once large families. The same, however, may be said of 
other large families in the town. Dr. Barstow did not leave a 
large property. His house was left as a life possession to his 
second daughter, who still occupies it with a tenant. 

The town of Nichols has sent fifteen members to the assemby, 
seven of her citizens having filled that position. Besides those 
already mentioned, Ezra Canfield was elected in 1837, Wright 
Dunham in 1829 and '39, John Coryell in 1838. Five of her citi- 
zens have filled the office of sheriff, three of them by the popular 
vote. She has also sent two members to the state senate, one to 
congress, and one of her citizens was twice elected treasurer of 
the state, and four have occupied a place on the bench of judges. 
The town was well represented in the late war, a large number 
of young men having enlisted, many of whom were among the 
" unreturning brave." Two died at Andersonville. Two of its 
citizens held slaves: Judge Coryell, one man, and Major Piatt, a 
man and his wife and daughter. The men left their masters as 
soon as the law made them free. The females remained, and the 
old woman was cared for by the Piatt family as long as she lived. 

Although the absence of manufactures at the village has pre- 
vented it from growing rapidly, it has constantly increased in 
extent, in population, material wealth and in beauty of appearance. 
It has changed from a hamlet, to a beautiful and well-kept 
village. Its streets are well laid out, clean and shaded through- 
Out with fine trees. Old and unsightly buildings have been 
removed and in their places we have neat and handsome dwell- 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 311 



ings with pleasant yards and gardens. No disaster eitiier of 
nature or fortune lias ever checked its progress. Its citizens 
have been singularly fortunate with regard to fires. No dwelling 
has ever been burned within the limits of the village. With the 
exception of the late Mr. Kirby's store, which was burned in 
1882, three or four shops are all that have been destroyed by fire. 
One of these, however, involved the loss of the records as we 
have stated. The business of the town continued to increase, 
and our citizens even looked forward to a time when the railroad 
might bring manufactures to them that would change our village 
to a flourishing town. The disastrous failure of a private bank 
in a neighboring town, in which most of the business men were 
interested, has, however, brought a cloud over its horizon, and 
interposed what we can only hope will be a temporary check to 
its prosperity. The population of the village at present is about 
400. The want of accuracy in dates in the foregoing sketch is 
owiAg partly to the destruction of the town records as mentioned, 
and partly to the passing away of the entire generation of those 
whose recollections might have assisted those of the writer. 

MANUFACTURES. 

L. Burr PearsaU's Circular Saw, Planing and Shingle-Mill was 
built by Gilbert Pearsall in 1876. It is situated just off the River 
road at Hoopers Valley, is run by steam power and has a 
capacity of 10,000 feet in ten hours. It has also a feed run; em- 
ploys seven men, and is under the supervision of the proprietor 
who is also largely engaged in farming. 

Dunham's Grist-Millon Wappasening creek was built by Henry, 
Wright and Ebenezer Dunham, brothers, about 1822-23. It is 
run by water power, with two runs of stones, doing mostly cus- 
tom work. It has facilities for manufacturing flour. It is now 
owned and rnn by Caleb Wright. 

Hunt's Saw and Grist-Mills on road 37, were built by Adonijah 
Hunt in 1884. The first mills on this site were built by his father, 
Jonathan Hunt, Jr., and were carried away by high water in 
1883. The circular saw-mill has a capacity of 5,000 feet in* ten 
hours. The custom mill has three runs of stones, and facilities for 
grinding buckwheat. 

The Nichols Steam Flour, Saw and Planing-Mills were built by 
John Fenderson in 1885. They are located near the D. L. & W. 
R. R. depot, off River street and adjacent to the railroad tracks. 
21* 



312 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



The flour mill has two runs of stones and roller capacity for fifty 
barrels a day, a specialty is made of buckwheat grinding in its 
season. The circular saw and planing-mill has a capacity of io,oo» 
feet per day. 

The Nichols Creamery was established in the spring of 1887, and- 
was first in operation on May 5th, of that year. It was built and is- 
conducted by W. and R. B. Baker, and has a capacity for 20,ock> 
lbs. of milk per day. It is situated near the river and convenient 
to the D. L. & W. R. R. depot. It has an engine of ten horse- 
power, a Danish-Weston seperatorand all the modern equipments, 

CHURCHES. 

The few clergymen that found their way into the country at ar> 
early day were Methodist ministers from the Baltimore confer- 
ence. They were always made welcome and the houses of the 
people thrown open to them to preach in. But their visits were- 
few and far between, and the inhabitants of the country com- 
monly devoted their Sundays to visiting, which, as they had 
little leisure during the week and nothing else to do on Sunday^ 
was not perhaps, surprising. Books were scarce in most families, 
newspapers in many, probably nearly unknown. In i8i7oneofth& 
Methodist conferences extended its boundaries so as to take in a 
part of the State of New York, and the entire town of Tioga was- 
included in a circuit. *A church was organized in the lower part 
of the town, south of the river with five members. Thev had no- 
pastor over them in the modern sense of the term, but two minis- 
ters " rode the circuit," preaching two successive Sundays alter- 
nately in the same place. The Rev. John Griffing was one of the 
first preachers. They preached in school-houses, private houses,, 
or barns, or in the open air ; whenever they could bring the peo- 
ple together to hear them. The first church in the town was the 
old Asbury Methodist church. It was built in 1822, on land given 
by Judge Coryell on the lower border of his estate ; a plot of 
ground above the church being set off and reserved by him as a 
burial ground for himself and feimily. 

The ground below was given by Mr. Palmer for a common, 
burial ground. This church was filled for many years every Sun- 
day with a good congregation, but it gradually diminished with 

*It is maintained and on good authority, that a Methodist class was formed several years- 
prior to this date by Benjamin Lounsberry, Sr., Thomas White and Adonijah Westcott, all 
young men, and that their first meetings were held in a school-house which stood on the 
north side of the River road just below the Riverside Cemetery. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 313 



the disappearance of some of the old families, till it became a 
question as to whether the services there should not be discon- 
tinued. It has, however, increased again, and there is now a con- 
gregation, and a Sunday-school is kept up a part of the year. 
In 1824 the Rev. Horace Agard was sent on to the circuit. He was 
a preacher of some talent, and was much liked by the people. 
He finally purchased a few acres of land and built a modest cot- 
tage just below what is now Hooper's Valley, and located his 
family there permanently. His health failed and he was obliged 
to abandon active work ^ome years before his death, which 
occurred in 1850. As a citizen of our town he was much respected. 
After his death his widow and family went to the State of Iowa. 
Nichols was made a station with a resident minister. ih 1835. 

The first church in the village of Nichols, now known as the 
Methodist church, was built in 1829. The ground which it occu- 
pies, which seemed to afford a more eligible site for the purpose' 
than any other in the village, was secured to the town by the 
liberality of Major Piatt. It had been in possession of Squire 
Joseph Webster, of Windham, Pa., by whom it was conveyed to 
the town in accordance with an arrangement made by Major Piatt 
with him and Mr. Sylvenus Dunham. This latter g^entleman had 
made a contract with Major Piatt for the purchase of a piece of 
ground on which to build a house. Major Piatt made a deed of 
this land to Mr. Dunham, in consideration of which Mr. Dunham 
conveyed to Squire Webster a piece of land which he owned in 
Windham, near or adjacent to that gentleman's farm, who in his 
turn, deeded the lot in Nichols to the trustees of the church. 
Whether this arrangement was made before the death of Major 
Piatt, or by some provision of his will, cannot now be told ; prob 
ably, however, it was by the latter, as Major Piatt died in 1824, 
and the final deed was not signed until just before the death of 
Squire Webster, in 1831. The church was built by contributions 
from the inhabitants of the town generally, who gave on the ex- 
press condition that the church should be free for all denomi- 
nations of .'Christians to preach in. It was built by contract, by 
Mr. Hezekiah Dunham, of Windham, Pa., for two thousand dol- 
lars, excepting the foundation, which was a separate affair, and 
built by the men of the town coming together, bringing stone and 
employing the proper mechanics and rendering general help. In 
this way a foundation was laid as strong as brick and mortar 
could make it. A box was enclosed in the corner-stone contain- 
ing a list of the trustees of the church, of the town officers for 



314 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



the year, the names of the governor and lieut-governor of the 
state, and the president and vice-president of the nation, and per- 
haps some other documents. There were also copies of the cur- 
rent numbers of the county papers, whatever they may have been. 
The names of the trustees were Emanuel Coryell, Nehemiah 
Piatt, Gamaliel H. Barstow, Ezra Canfield, John Cassel, Peter 
Joslin, Jonathan Hunt, Edwin' Ripley, Wright Dunham, John 
Petts, Sylvester Knapp, Cyrus Field, Daniel Ferguson, Justus 
Brown and James Thurston, These men, who represented 
nearly every part of the town, have all passed away. One of 
them, Sylvester Knapp, was from Smithboro, from which we infer 
that Smithboro helped to build the church. 

On this foundation Mr. Dunham erected a superstructure 
-which has now stood fifty-eight years without showing any sign 
■of weakness or decay. Lumber was then plenty and cheap, and 
the frame was constructed of large and solid pine timbers of 
:great strength, the beams of the front of the tower extending 
from the foundation up. It was built after the fashion of the 
times, with a high pulpit at the end of the auditorium towards 
the entrance, and galleries that would seat nearly as many persons 
as the floor below. It was dedicated the next winter, although 
there was no means of warming it then, nor for some time after. 
The dedicatory sermon was preached by the Rev. Mr. Piatt, 
pastor of the Presbyterian church at Athens, Pa. The Methodists 
presently removed their preaching place from the old school- 
house to the church, which they have continued to occupy from 
that time, preaching for many years but once a day, and that in 
the afternoon, while any others desiring to use it, had the morn- 
ing hours. The house being free was used not only by all de-r 
nominations of Christians, orthodox and others, but for almost 
every other purpose for which a public building was necessary 
.exhibitions, concerts, public meetings of all kinds, including 
political. A Mormon even, on one occasion, found his way into 
the pulpit. As a consequence the church was ill kept, ill cared 
for, and often neglected. There were, from time to time, some 
alterations made in the interior to render it more comfortable for 
rministers and people, and in 1858 it was put in very good repair 
with some farther alterations, and the trustees grew rather more 
careful about allowing such indiscriminate use of it as had been 
the custom. In 1871 the interior was entirely remodeled in ac- 
cordance with the modern style of church building. The gal- 
Jeries were removed, the seats reversed, stained glass windows 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 315, 



put in, and twenty feet added in the rear to make room for a pip6 
organ, in front of which a simple desk supplied the place of a 
pulpit. The bell was purchased in 1867, during the pastorate of 
the Rev. Asa Brooks. At this time also, the time of preaching, 
was changed from afternoon to morning. 

During the pastorate of the Rev. George Comfort, in 1873,. 
the church was regularly incorporated as the First Methodist 
church, of Nichols, although it is still a free church, open to any 
who may wish to preach there at any hour not already occupied. 
The Presbyterians we shall have occasion immediately to speak 
of. Other denominations have, at different times, made some 
attempts to establish themselves here, but without success. 

In 1843, died Miss Sidney Coryell, an utnarried flaughter of 
Judge Coryell, who, with a sister, also unmarried, and her mother 
had been inhabitants of our village since 1835. This lady, left no 
will, but requested before her death that a portion, at least, o£ 
her property should be given to the Methodist church at Nich- 
ols, of which she was a member. Her friends consenting, her 
wish was carried out by her sister, the next summer, by the pur- 
chase of the Methodist parsonage lot of Mr. Nehemiah Piatt, 
for the sum of nine hundred dollars. There was then but one 
house standing on it, which was occupied as a parsonage until 
1871, when the present parsonage was built. Two or three years 
later the lot was divided and the town half sold to Mr. Babcock. 

The Presbyterians had no church in Nichols until after the 
erection of the church building in 1829. A church was then 
organized with thirteen members. Their first pastor was the 
Rev. Mr. Ripley, an old gentleman with no family, who found a 
home with some one of his members. He remained but one year,, 
and was succeeded by the Rev. Ira Smith, who, with a. large 
family, served the church two years on the very moderate salary 
of two hundred dollars, with the addition, probably, of the rent 
of a house. After his departure the church was for many years 
without a regular pastor. The pulpit was occasionally filled by 
ministers from the neighboring towns, and for a few years sub- 
sequent to 1844, for the period is not precisely remembered, the 
Rev. John Gibbs, a retired minister, who came into the town as 
a resident, officiated as pastor. In 1859, the Rev. Henry Carpen- 
ter was hired and remained two years, and was succeeded by the 
Rev. George M. Life. This gentleman was a native of Virginia, 
but being loyal to the Union, he left the state on the breaking 
out of the war, and canje to the residence of his brother, who 



3l6 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



was also a clergyman, in Muncey, Pa. Hearing, while at this 
place, of their want of a pastor at the church at Nichols, he came 
here and was hired by the trustees of the church, and remained 
here eight years. He had no great talents as a preacher, but 
made himself very acceptable as a pastor and as a financier in 
church matters. It was during his pastorate that the Presbyte-' 
rian church edifice was built. It was done, too, just after the 
close of the war, when the hard times rendered the accomplish- 
ment of such an enterprise almost hopeless. It was built and 
finished, however, and dedicated in the fall of 1867. He married 
a lady of some wealth, in Muncey, and just after the completion 
of the church, built himself a very handsome private residence, 
which, at his departure from the town, in 1870, was purchased 
by the church for a parsonage. Since that time tJie pulpit has 
been occupied by a succession of preachers. Mr. Life may be 
said to have built up the church by giving it a "local habitation" 
and standing in the town, which it had not had before. The River 
Valley Methodist church was built in 1873, on ground given by 
Jonathan Hunt, during the pastorate of the Rev. Mr. Comfort, 
a few miles up the river. 

The first graves in Nichols were made on a knoll on the river not 
far from the house of the late Henry Coryell. These graves have 
long since disappeared. Major Piatt had a private cemetery on 
his farm up the river, where for many years those of the Piatt 
family who deceased were buried. Caleb Wright also buried his 
dead on his own farm. The first village cemetery, or " burying- 
ground" as it was called, was the gift of Mr. Wright to the 
town. It was a piece of ground comprising less than an acre, at 
the upper end of his farm. It was a few years ago enlarged by 
the purchase of a small piece of ground from Daily Dunham. 
The private cemetery of the Dunham family, which was laid out 
some time afterward, joins it on the upper end. This ground 
served as a place of interment for our village for many years, 
and it is still sometimes used. The Riverside Cemetery associa- 
tion was regularly incorporated, June i, 1861, by the inhabitants 
of the upper part of the town. The cemetery consists of one 
acre lying on that part of the public road that runs along the 
river .bank, about three or four miles above the village. The 
Nichols cemetery, lying rather more than a mile below the 
village was established by an association incorporated February 
10, 1876. These cemeteries are well laid and well kept and 
supply a want that had long been felt in the town. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 317 

OWEGO * the shire town of Tioga county, is situated in the 
southeast corner of the same, and is bounded north by New- 
ark Valley, east and south by the county line, and west by 
Nichols, Tioga, and a small part of Candor. At the time the 
county was organized, February 16, i/gi.the territory comprised 
in the present town of Owego was a part of the town of Union, 
which then included within its limits the present towns of Berk- 
shire, Newark Valley, Owego, and Richford, in Tioga county, 
and also territory in the present counties of Broome and Che- 
nango. The original town of Owego at that time lay west of the 
Owego creek, and included the present towns of Candor, Nichols, 
Tioga, and Spencer, and all of Barton except that portion lying 
west of Cayuta creek, together with the towns of Cajjoline, Dan- 
by, and Newfield, (then called Cayuta), in Tompkins county. 

On the I4lh of March, i8oo,' the present town of Owego was 
organized from Union and named Tioga, and ,when Broome 
•county was organized on March 22, 1806, the town became apart 
•of her territory. The disadvantages of having a town of Owego 
•on the west side of the Owego creek, and a village of Owego in 
the town of Tioga on the east side of the creek were such that 
in the revision of the statutes, in 1813, the names of the towns 
•of Owego arid Tioga were exchanged, the one for the other, as 
they now exist. 

The town of Owego again became a part of Tioga county, 
March 22, 1822, when all the territory that had been taken with 
Broome county in 1806, was restored to Tioga. 

Old Indian Boundary Lines. — An undeniably correct account of 
the early land grants and of the first occupation of the territory 
included within the limits of the present town of Owego, together 
with the acquisition of the tract of eighteen square miles of land 
by James McMaster, now known as the McMaster Half Township, 
•on which Owego stands, has been already given in this work. 
The abandonment of the hunting grounds on the Susquehanna 
river and the gradual occupancy of the land by white settlers from 
the Eastern States followed. 

The original league of the Iroqnois consisted of five nations of 
Indians, the Onondagas,Oneidas, Mohawks, Cayugas, and Senecas. 
The Six Nations were constituted, in 1712, by uniting with the 
Tuscaroras. 

The dividing line between the Cayugas and Onondagas com- 

*Prepared by LeRoy W. Kingman, of Owego. 



3l8 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



menced on Lake Ontario, near the mouth of the Osweg^o river and 
on its west side, and, passing between the Cross and Otter lakes, 
continued south into Pennsylvania, crossing the Susquehanna 
river west of Owego The Cayugas were west of the line. 

The boundary line between the Senecas and Cayugas com- 
menced at the head of Sodus bay on Lake Ontario, and running 
south nearly on the longitude of Washington, crossed the Clyde 
river, near the village of that name, and the Seneca river, about 
four miles east of its outlet from the Seneca lake. Continuing south 
and inclining a little to the east, the line ran nearly to the lake at 
its head, and having crossed the Chemung river east of Elmira, it 
passed into Pennsylvania. The territory of the Cayugas lay upon 
both sides of Cayuga lake, and extended to the eastward so as to 
include the Ovvasco. 

The line between the Onondagas and Oneidas ran from the 
Deep Spring, near Manlius, south into Pennsylvania, crossing 
the Susquehanna river, near its confluence with the Chenango. 

In brief, the Senecas were west of the Cayugas, the dividing 
line crossing into Pennsylvania, east of Elmira. The Cayugas- 
were east of this line and were divided from the Onondagas by 
the line which crossed into Pennsylvania, west of Owego. The 
Onondagas occupied the present town of Owego and the western 
part of Broome county, and were divided from the Oneidas by 
the line which crossed the Susquehanna near its confluence with 
the Chenango. 

Another tribe, the Nanticokes, had undisputed possession of this 
portion of the valley of the Susquehanna. Their headquarters- 
were about fourteen miles above Owego, near the mouth of the 
Choconut creek, and across the river at Union. The Nanticokes 
had been driven from the south and were identical with Indians 
of the eastern shore of Virginia, who were known as the Nanta- 
quaks. They were admitted into the confederacy of the Iroquois- 
but were then tributaries and acted in concert with them, enjoy- 
ing the protection of the league. 

After the white people began to settle here the Indians gradu- 
ally left the country. The late William Pumpelly informed the 
writer that when he came here, in 1805, Indians were frequently 
seen about the streets, but most of them had removed to Oneida, 
county. They were accustomed to hold their councils and dan- 
ces at the Indian spring, in Tioga. As late as 1812, there were 
Indians scattered all about the county, and on the island below 
Leach's mills there were half a dozen slab huts occupied by 



' > TOWN of; owego. 319 

Indians, who spent their time in'fishing and hunting, while their 
squaws made bead work and baskets, which they sold to the white 
people on general training and other public days. 

Indian Nomenclature. — Owego was known in the Indian dialect 
as Ah-wah-gah, and it was pronounced as thus spelled by the 
Indian captors of Mrs. Jane Whitaker, the white girl, who 
escaped the massacre of Wyoming and was taken with other 
prisoners to Tioga Point (Athens) and thence to Owego, while 
on their way to Unadilla.* In Lewis H. Morgan's " Ho-de-no- 
sau-nee, or League of the Iroquois," it is spelled in the Onondaga 
dialect "Ah- wa-ga;" the " a " in the second syllable being pro- 
nounced as in the word " fate." 

In the " Documents Relative to the Colonial Histary of the 
State of New York " it is variously spelled, " Owegy," " Oweigy," 
and "Oswegy." In early maps it is spelled "Owegy" and 
"Owega." The early settlers pronounced the name O-wa-go;: 
"a" pronounced as in " fate." It was also so written in the town 
records of the town of Union, and in the journals of officers of 
Clinton's and Sullivan's armies, and also in early letters and 
documents. 

The word " Ah-wa-ga " signifies, according to Wilkinson's- 
"Annals of Binghamton," swift, or swift river. Judge Avery,, 
who is undoubtedly correct, says its signification is " where the 
valley widens." 

That part of the village of OwegO nearest the mouth of the- 
Owego creek, known as Canawana, was " Ca-ne-wa-nah." In 
the Seneca dialect it was " Ne-wa-na Canoeush," meanings 
literally, " little living water." It was so named from the springj- 
known as the Indian spring, situated a little west of the Owega 
creek, at the northern base of the cliff, north of the Main street 
bridge. The present name is obtained by the arbitrary transpo- 
sition of syllables. 

Susquehanna is written in Smith's history of Virginia, " Sas-- 
que-han-nough," and by Morgan, in his "League of the Iro- 
quois," in the Indian dialect, " Ga-wa-no-wa-na-neh," meaning' 
" Great Island River." Wilkinson's ''Annals of Binghamton'' 
says that the word signifies " long and crooked river." In a list 
of Indian names of rivers and settlements in Pennsylvania it is^ 
given as " Winding water." 

Heckwelder, in his " Indian Names of Rivers, Creeks, and 

*See " The Susquehanna Valley," by Judge Avery in St. Nicholas, 1853, page 123. 



320 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



Noted Places in Pennsylvania," says the word Susquehanna 
(properly " Sisquehanne," from " Sisku," for mud, and " hanne," 
a stream) was, probably, at an early time of the settling of this 
country, overheard by some white person, while the Indians 
were at the time of a flood or freshet remarking, " Juh ! Achsi 
■quehanne," or "Sisquehanne," which is: "How muddy the 
■stream is," and, therefore, taken as the proper name of the river. 
Any stream that has become muddy will at the time it is so be 
■called '• Sisquehanna." 

At the meeting of the Presbytery at Newport, in October, 
1885, a young Indian whom the Presbytery had taken under its 
care, said that the river received its name in this way : An Indian 
■standing on one side of the banks called across to the other, 
^'Susque," which interpreted means, "Are you there?" His 
friend replied, " Hanna,' which means, " I am here." A white 
man standing near heard it and named the river accordingly. 
This derivation appears to be rather far-fetch.ed. 

The word " Anna " appears to be a general Indian term mean- 
ing "river." The word " Susque" is said to have meant in the 
aboriginal dialect, "long and crooked." Thus we have the 
.Susqueh-anna, the Lackaw.-anna, and in Virginia, the North 
Anna, South Anna, Rixanna, and Flav-anna. 

Early Settlers. — The first white men to visit this town of whom 
we have any account, were a portion of General Sullivan's army, 
in 1779. On the 17th of August, in that year, Captain Daniel 
Livermore. of the 3d Ne.w Hampshire regiment of General 
Poor's brigade, with a detachment of nine hundred men from 
General Sullivan's army, marched up the Susquehanna river 
from Tioga Point (Athens, Pa.,) to meet General Clinton's expe- 
dition of 1,500 men, which was coming down from Otsego lake. 

At Owego, Captain Livermore destroyed the Indian village, 
which was on the river's bank at and below William street, and 
which consisted of about twenty wigwams, the natives having 
fled on the approach of the troops. Two days afterward they 
effected a union with Clinton's army of 1,500 men at Charamuk 
{Choconut, about one and one-half miles above Union) and the 
■entire body then marched to Owego, arriving August 19th, ancl 
remaining encamped here two days, on account of rainy weather. 

One of the soldiers in General Clinton's army in this expedi- 
tion was James McMaster, of Florida, Montgomery county. 
Pleased with the appearance of the valley and the apparent 
advantages of the land for farming purposes, he returned four 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 32 1 



years later, in 1784, on a prospecting visit. The only white man 
in these parts then was Amos Draper, an Indian trader, who re- 
sided, at Choconut, and who was engaged in trafficking with the 
natives at various points. Through Draper's influence, McMas- 
ter conciliated the Indians, so that when he returned here the 
next year he was unmolested. 

In April, 1785, McMaster, accompanied by his brother, Robert 
McMaster, William Taylor, a bound boy, John Nealy and Wil- 
liam Woods, left Florida for Owego. They came down Otsego 
lake to the Susquehanna river, and on down to Owego. Their 
farming implements and cooking utensils were conveyed in a 
boat, while some of the party went with four horses by land. 
Having arrived here, they constructed a cabin of pitcli-pine logs 
■upon the flat, about fifty rods above where the flouring mill in 
Canawana now stands. They planted ten acres with corn on the 
homestead farm of George Talcott, after which they built a more 
-substantial log house on the ground now occupied by George L. 
Rich's residence, near the lower end of Front street. The latter 
ihouse stood facing the river, near its bank. After the corn had 
been hoed, the party returned to Montgomery county. After 
finishing their harvesting upon the Mohawk, they came back to 
Owego in the fall and gathered their crop, which had not been 
molested by the Indians. 

Amos Draper came to Owego to reside in the spring of 1787, 
and his was the first white family to settle here. Draper had 
resided at Kingston, Pa., from which point his family removed, 
in the fall of 1786, to Nanticoke, where he had been engaged in 
trafficking with the Indians for several years. They commenced 
living, in the house that McMaster and his party had built two 
years previous. 

Amos Draper and his brother, Joseph Draper, who was a sur- 
veyor, and who was also afterward a resident of Owego, were 
■sons of Major Simeon Draper, who was one of the forty settlers 
or proprietors of the township of Kingston, under the old Con- 
necticut claim, in 1768. "Amos Draper," says an old document in 
possession of the writer, "deceased on the 24th of May, 1808, at 
about 2 o'clock P. M., in the town of Owego, in the county of 
Tioga, N. Y., with a cancer on the left cheek — after passing 
through the most excruciating pain for nearly one year — and was 
buried in the burial ground in the village of Owego, in the town 
of Tioga, and county of Broome, and State of New York. The 



322 TOWN OF OWEGO. 

stone at the head is marked A. D. The grave to the north is his 
daughter, which deceased with small pox." 

The first white child born within the present limits of Tioga 
county was Selecta Draper, daughter of Amos Draper. She was 
born in Owego, June 19, 1788, and married Stephen Williams, 
Jr., of Newark Valley, in 1809. She died at the residence of her 
son, L. E. Williams, in Newark Valley, April 2, 1865. 

The family of James McMaster removed to Owego in the 
spring of 1788, and settled in a house near the river, opposite the 
foot of the street now known as Academy street. In the same 
year the family of John McQuigg came from New Hampshire 
and settled in a house situated where Camp's furnace nowstands^ 
a short distance below Park street. McQuigg was a revolution- 
ary soldier. He died in Owego, in 1813. 

These houses were all on the line of the old Indian trail and 
fronted upon the river. This was washed away long ago by the 
freshets of successive years. There were trails on both banks- 
up and down the Susquehanna. The one on the north side 
followed the bank closely from the eastern part of the town all 
the way to the Owego creek at its mouth. On the west side of 
the creek it continued along close to the river bank to the nar- 
rows, near Tioga Center. This trail was wide enough for the 
passage of horses with packs, cattle, etc., and in some places it 
was wide enough for wagons. It was widened after the coming^ 
of the white people and became the main highway through 
southern New York from the east to the west. Another Indian 
trail was the " Cayuga Lake trail," running north and south. 
It entered the north part of the village of Owego, and ran. 
direct to the river. It was nearly identical in its course with 
the streets now known as McMaster and Academy streets. 

When the early settlers came into this country, these trails- 
were the only roads opened through the forest, and were for 
many years the only route of travel. Along their line the early 
settlers built their houses. All of the Indian trails along "the 
banks of the Chemung and Susquehanna rivers and their tribu- 
taries converged upon Tioga Point (Athens, Pa.), at the junction' 
of these two rivers. They became gathered into one, which,, 
descending the Susquehanna, formed the great southern trail 
into Pennsylvania and Virginia. 

Although James McMaster was the owner of such avast amount 
of land, he died poor. He sold it piece by piece, much of it for 
a mere song, and in his later days went to live in Canddr, where 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 



323 



tiis daughter, Mrs. Caleb Sackett, resided. His death was caused 
toy being thrown from a horse, in 1818. McMaster was the first 
sheriff of Tioga county, elected in 1791. 

The .old town of Union, in the county of Tioga, as formed by 
an act of the legislature, February 16, 1791, extended from the 
Chenango river to the West Owego creek, and from the Penn- 
■sylvania state line to the south side of the military tract. This, 
•of course, included the whole of the present town of Owego. 
The to\vn was organized April 5, in the same year, by the election 
of town officers, and three months later (July 12, 1791), it was 
divided into road districts by the commissioners of high- 
ways. Frorii the lists of persons assigned to work on the high- 
ways, we obtain the names of the settlers at that earliy day, re- 
siding between the Owego creek and the head of the Big Island. 
The list is as follows: 



James McMaster, 
Phineas Thompson, 
Emmanuel Deuel, 
John Caster, 
Jehu Barney, 
Robert McMaster, 
Amos Draper, 
John McQuigg, 
John Nealy, 

The names of those 
Island and the present li 
were as follows : 

-Silas Gaskill, 
Uriah Gaskill, 
Wilder Gaskill, 
Samuel Smith, 
Charles Dodge, 
Jonathan Hammond, 
Seth Jakeway, 
John Taylor, 
James Sarner, 
Moses Ingersoll, 
Reuben Holbook, 
Oideon Thayer, 



John Carmon, Amos Mead, 

Elias Williams, James Barnes, 

Timothy Sibley, Benjamin Selden, 

Daniel Ferguson, Thomas Jordan, 
Daniel Ferguson, Jr., Elisha Bates, 
Reuben Harrington, Stephen Dean, 
Jacob Harrington, Benjamin Marsh, 
Jeremiah Harrington, Stephen Ay Is worth 
William Bates, Benjamin Bates. 

residing between the head of the Big 
ne between Tioga and Broome counties, 



Matthew Hammond, 
Daniel Thurston, 
Benjamin Lewis, 
Daniel Hilton, 
Nathan Hammond, 
David Hammond, 
Moses Reed, 
Levi Wheeler, 
Samuel Atkins, 
David Barney, 
Frances Norwood, 
William Read, 



Amariah Yates, 
Isaac Harris, 
Thomas Tracy, 
Cohoon Runnals, 
Koswell Smith, 
John Kelly, 
William Roe, 
John Rowley, 
Zimri Barney, 

Richard -, 

Jeremiah Taylor, 
Daniel Read. 



Some of the persons named above may have resided east of 



324 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



the present Tioga county line. Many of them were squatters, 
too poor to buy land, and subsisting by fishing and hunting, and 
they remained here only until driven from the land by the 
owners. Others were owners of land by purchase, and remained 
permanent residents. Many of their descendants are still resi- 
dents of the town. 

Organization. — The first town meeting in the old town of Tioga 
(Owego), was held at Capt. Luke Bates's tavern, in Owego vil- 
lage, on the 3d day of April, 1800. Col. David Pixley was 
chosen moderator, and the following town officers were elected ; 
Supervisor, John, Brown ; town clerk, Lemuel Brown; assessors, 
Asa Bement, Asa Camp, Henry Steward ; collector, Jesse Glea- 
zen ; overseers of the poor. Vine Kingsley, Lemuel Brown ; cpm- 
missioner of highways, Stephen Mack; constables, Henry Stew- 
ard, Stephen Ball, Stephen Mack ; fence viewers. Vine Kingsley,. 
Stephen Bates ; pound-master, Vine Kingsley ; pathmasters, Silas- 
Gaskill, John McQuigg, Edward Pain, John Freeman, Asa Leon- 
ard, Laban Jenks, John Barney, Wilder Gaskill, David Buriel. 

Town meetings were held in April each year until 1813, when 
Ihe day was changed to the first Tuesday in March. In 183 1, 
the day was again changed to the first Tuesday in February. 
The last change was made to accommodate the river raftsmen, 
who were usually absent down -the river during the spring fresh- 
ets, and who comprised a large proportion of the voting popu- 
lation. 

The first record of votes cast in the town was that of April 
29, 1802, for congressman, senators and assemblymen. The 
highest total vote cast was eighty-four. At the last election, in 
November, 1886, the total vote cast in the town for member of 
assembly was 2,342. 

BIOGRAPHICAL. 

Capt. Lemuel Brown was born in Berkshire county, Mass., in 
1775, and came to Owego in^ 1790. In 1795, he built the first tan- 
nery erected in Tioga county. It stood on the west side of the 
Southern Central railroad track, north of Talcott street, in the 
village of Owego. He was an overseer of the poor eighteen 
years, andheld other town offices. He died in Owego, December 
5^ 1815- 

Capt. Mason Wattles was the first man to engage in the 
mercantile business in Owego. He came here, in 1792, from 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 325 



Franklin, Otsego Co., N. Y. He was very wealthy and became 
owner of much of the land now occupied by the business portion 
of the village. He failed in business, in 1799. He afterward, for 
several years, held the office of justice of the peace. He was- 
associate judge of Broome county* from 1807 to 1812, and also 
clerk of Broome county from February 18, i8ii,to November 
9, 1812. He subsequently removed from Owego- to New York, 
where he died. 

Dr. Samuel Tinkham was born in one of the New England/ 
States about the year 1767, and came to the town of Tioga about 
the year 1792. Besides practicing his profession he kept a store 
in Owego. He died in the town of Newark VaUey, while on a 
professional visit to a patient, September 30, 1804. •His sons 
.were Samuel S. , and David P. Tinkham. 

Dr. James H. Tinkham, the only son of Samuel S. Tinkham^ 
was born in Owego, March 16, [836. In July, 1861, he entered 
the United States navy as a surgeon. During a visit to Owego 
in 1879, he was attacked with quick consumption and died June 
2d in that year. He was a physician of great promise, and dur- 
ing his illness he was ordered as fleet-surgeon to the West Indies 
squadrpn. 

Dr. Elisha Ely came to Owego from Saybrook, Conn., in the 
fall of 1798. He died here three years afterward of consumption, 
contracted by exposure while he was surgeon in the federal army 
during the revolutionary war. His sons were William A., Daniel, 
Gilbert, Elisha, Edward and James Ely. 

William A. Ely was born at Saybrook, October 16, 1788. He 
was for fifty years a prominent merchant and business man in 
Owego. He was a member of the first board of trustees of Owego 
village, and supervisor of the town of Owego from 1825 to 1830, 
inclusive, and also in 1832 and 1833. He died in Owego, Novem- 
ber 27, 1863. His sorts are Alfred G., Charles E., and Frederick 
Ely, of New York city, and Edward O. Ely, of Boston, Mass. 

Daniel Ely was born at Saybrook, in 1796. He was for many 
years an active business man, and a merchant. He was postmas- 
ter of O'wego from February 4, 1842, to November 25, 1844. He 
died in Owego, November 25, 1844. 

James Ely was born in Owego, in 1809, and was engaged in the 
mercantile business with his brothers, William and Daniel. He 

* From March 28, 1806, to March 22, 1822, the present towns of Berkshire, Newark 
Valley, Owego and Richford were a part of Broome county. 



326 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



was supervisor of the town of Owego in 1834, and 1852, and rep- 
resented Tioga county in the assembly of 1851. He removed to 
Orand Rapids, Mich., where he died on the 20th of December, 
1862. 

Stephen Mack was born in Massachusetts, May 20, 1765. In 
1799 he kept a country store at Cooperstown, N. Y., and had a 
-contract with the government to furnish about 100,000 spars, to 
be delivered at Baltimore. In March of that year, a freshet in 
the Susquehanna river carried away all the tiftiber, which he had 
purchased and paid for in. goods at his store, and made him a 
bankrupt. He came down the river to Owego in search of his 
-timber, but found it would cost as much to "hunt it up and get it 
together again as it was worth, so he made no further effort to 
secure it. He was so highly pleased with Owego, that he re- 
moved here the same spring. In 1805, he purchased The Ameri- 
can Farmer printing office, and published the newspaper until his 
death. He lived in Owego only fifteen years, but during that 
time he was one of the most prominent and influential citizens. 
He held the offices of commissioner of highways, excise commis- 
sioner, and constable. He was for several years a justice of the 
peace, and served as supervisor of the town of Tioga (now Owe- 
go) in 1807, 1808, 181 1, and 1812. He was appointed first judge 
of Broome (now Tioga) county, November 9, 1812, and served 
three years. He died in Owego, April 14, 1814. After his death 
his widow and his son Horace, who was then fifteen years of age, 
set the type and worked the edition of The American Farmer un- 
til Stephen B. Leonard took possession, in the following June. 

Gen. John Laning was born at Lambertsville, N. J., in Octo- 
ber, 1779. He came to Owego in August, i8oi. He engaged in 
lumbering and the mercantile business, and brought plaster from 
Cayuga lake for shipment down the river in arks to a market. 
He was killed by falling through a hatchway in his storehouse 
on Front street, on the 12th of February, 1820. One of his sons, 
John C. Laning, is still a resident of Owego. 

Eleazer Dana, the first practicing lawyer in Owego, was born at 
Ashford, Conn., August 12, 1772. His father, Anderson Dana, 
was killed in the massacre of Wyoming. He studied law at 
Newtown (Elmira), and was admitted to the bar, in 1800. Im- 
mediately thereafter he removed to Owego. He was the second 
postmaster of Owego, from 1802 to 1816. He was appointed 
surrogate of Broome county, in 1806, and also represented the 
.coun|;y in the assembly of 1S08 — 9. 'He was district attorney 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 327 



of Tioga county from 1823 to 1826. He was a member of the 
first board of trustees of Owego village, in 1827, and one of the 
original trustees of the Owego academy, which office he held 
until his death, which occurred May i, 1845. He was also one 
of the original trustees of the Presbyterian church, organized in 
1810, which office he also held during his life. 

John H. Avery, the second resident lawyer in Owego, was 
born in 1783. He came to Owego, in 1801. He was a member 
of assembly, in 1814. He died in Owego, September i, 1837. 
His sons were Charles P. and Guy H. Avery. The latter resides 
in New York. 

Charles P. Avery, a son of John H. Avery, was born in Owego, 
in 18 18. He studied law in the office of his brotjper-in-law, 
Thomas Farrington, and was admitted to the bar, in 1840. He 
was chosen judge of Tioga county, in 1847, being the first judge 
elected by the people in the county under the change of the judi- 
cial system by the constitution of 1846. At the expiration of his 
term of office he was re-elected. Judge, Avery was greatly in- 
terested in the Indian and pioneer history of this part of the 
state, at a time when many of the early settlers of Tioga county 
were still alive, and from them he obtained much information 
regarding the early history of the valley of the Susquehanna, 
which otherwise would have been lost. Much of this has been 
preserved in a series of papers, entitled " The Susquehanna Val- 
ley," which were printed in a magazine, called St. Nicholas, which 
was published in Owego, in 1853-4. This is the on y work of 
any particular historical value that has been heretofore pubhshed 
in Tioga county. He also took a deep interest in the aborigines 
of the country. When the Indian missionary, Sa-sa-na Loft, was 
killed at Deposit, in 1852, he caused a monument to be erected 
to her memory, on the hill in the eastern part of Evergreen cem- 
etery, in Owego. Judge Avery possessed a rare collection of 
Indian relics, a list of which was published inthe " Susquehanna 
Valley'' papers, and which, after his death, were sold to a gentle- 
man in Rochester. In 1856, Judge Avery removed to Flint, 
Mich., where he practiced law until the spring of 1872, when, on 
account of his health having become impaired by the climate of 
that state, he returned to Owego. He died here on the 31st of 
August, in that year. 

John Holfenback was born near Wilkesbarre, Pa.,' November 
2, 1780. He came to Owego. in 1801 or 1802, and commenced a 
general mercantile business. He died, childless, June 13, 1847, 
aa* 



328 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



and bequeathed the greater portion of his large property to 
to his nephew, George W. HoUenback. 

George W. HoUenback was born at Wyalusing, Pa., August 
25, 1806. He entered the store of his uncle, John HoUenback,. 
as a clerk, in 183 1. He was engaged for many years in the mer- 
cantile and lumbering business. He died in Owego, December 
30, 1878. Mr. HoUenback was supervisor of the town of Owego- 
in 1850, 1851 and 1855; trustee of the village in 1852, 1854 and 
1862, and president of the village in 1854 His sons were Will- 
iam H., Frederick, John G., and Charles E HoUenback. 

James Pumpelly was the eldest son of John Pumpelly, who- 
served with distinction in the early Indian and French wars, and 
who was present at the siege of Louisburg, and was at the side 
of Gen. Wolfe when he fell mortally wounded on the Heights 
of Abraham, in 1759. John Pumpelly, his wife, and five of their 
children, James, Harmon, William, Harriet, (afterward Mrs. 
David McQuigg), and Maria, (afterward Mrs. Abner Beers)^ 
removed from Salisbury, Conn., to Beers's Settlement, in Tomp- 
kins county, N. Y., in May, 1802. He died in 1820, at the 
advanced age of 93 years. James Pumpelly was a surveyor. He 
commenced by surveying the Owego village plot arid laying it 
out into two acre lots. He then surveyed the West Half Town- 
ship, and laid it out into 143 acre lots. In this work he wa& 
assisted by his younger brothers. He became agent for large 
tracts of land, owned by friends in the east. He opened a land 
office, and engaged extensively in real estate transactions on his 
own account, soon becoming one of the largest lafld-owners in 
this part of the state. He died in Owego. October 4, 1845, leav- 
ing two sons, George J. and Frederick H. Pumpelly. James 
Pumpelly did more for the advancement of Owego as a village 
than any other one of her early citizens. He was the first presi- 
dent of the village after its incorporation, in 1827, and held that 
office five successive years. He also represented Broome (now 
Tioga) county in the assembly of 18 10. He was activel)'- 
interested in educational matters, and it was mainly through hi& 
influence and efforts that the first Academy building was erected 
in Owego, in 1827. He was the first president of the board of 
trustees of that institution, and held that office several years. 
• Charles Pumpelly, the second son of John Pumpelly, was born 
at SaUsbury, Conn., in 1780. He came to Owego in' the winter 
of 1802-3 and engaged in the mercantile and lumber business. 
He was successful in his business enterprises and for many years 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 329 



was one of the prominent and influential men of the county. He 
was supervisor of the town of Owego, in 1809, 1810, and from 
1 82 1 to 1824, inclusive. He i-epresented Tioga county in the 
Assembly of 1825, and was a member of the constitutional con- 
vention, in 1821. He died in 0\Vego on the 6th of January, 1855. 

William Pumpelly, the third son of John Pumpelly, was born 
at Salisbury, Conn., June 17; 1789. He came to Owego, in 1865, 
and entered the service of his elder brother as a surveyor. In 
1812, he' commenced a mercantile business, and continued until 
1844, when he retired. He died in Owego, November 17, 1876. 
His second wife, Mary H. (Welles) Pumpelly, was a lady of fine 
accomplishments, an artist, and the author of a volume of poems. 
His sons are John Putapelly, of Albany, and Professor Raphael 
Pumpelly, distinguished as a geologist and mineralogist, of New- 
port, R. I. 

Harmon Pumpelly, the fourth son of John Pumpelly, was 
born at Salisbury, Conn., August i, 1795. He was in early life 
employed for several ^ears in surveying lands for his brother, 
James. He afterward engaged' in lumbering and became 
wealthy. In 1841, he removed to Albany, of which city he be- 
came one of the most prominent men in financial circles. He 
died in that city September 29, 1882. He was a member of the 
first Poard of Trustees of Owego village and was re-elected four 
times. In 1835, he was president of the village. 

Daniel Cruger, Jr., who was the first printer and newspaper 
publisher in Owego, entered the printing office of a Mr. Webster, 
in Albany, in 1794, at the age of fourteen years. After he had 
served his time he established a paper called The American Con- 
stellation at Union (then in Tioga county) November 23, 1800. 
In August, 1803,' he removed his establishment to Owego, and 
changed the name of the paper to The American Farmer. Two 
years afterward he sold the paper to Judge Stephen Mack. 
From Owego he removed to Bath, where he edited a newspaper 
for some time. He studied law and was admitted to the bar, in 
1809. In 1814, 181 5, 1816, and 1826, he represented Allegany 
and Steuben counties in the assembly, and was speaker of that 
boldy in 1816. He was district attorney of the seventh New 
York district from March 17, 1815, to June 11, 1818, and from 
the latter date continued as district attorney of Steuben county 
until February 19, 1821. He represented the 20th congressional 
district in the 15th congress, in 1817-19. While in congress 
he became acquainted with Mrs. Lydia Shepard, of Ohio county. 



330 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



Va., who was in Washington trying to collect a claim of her de- 
ceased husband against the government. He subsequently 
married her. He afterward gave himself up entirely to agricul- 
tural pursuits and the management of his wife's property. He 
was a director of the' Northwestern Bank of Virginia, and it was 
while attending to the duties of that position he was stricken 
with the disease from which he died nine days afterward. 
His death occurred at Elm Grove, Va., July 12, 1843. 

Capt. Sylvenus Fox, a carpenter by trade, was born at North 
Glastonbury, Conn., May 6, 1797, and came to Owego with the 
Talcotts, in 1 803, when but six years of age. He acquired his title 
of captain from having been in command of an independent mili- 
tary compajiy, about the year 1831. He was a public spirited 
■citizen and rendered important service m laying out streets and 
forwarding various public improvements. He was elected a vil- 
lage trustee, in 1832, and served eleven years. He was president 
of the village, in 1840. He died in Owego, August 24, 1871. 

William, Nathan, Anson, and Hermon Camp came to Owego 
from New Preston, Conn., in 1804 or 1805. William, the eldest, 
was born in 1777, and Nathan in February, 1782. They opened 
a general country store in Owego. Nathan was a man of literary 
tastes and founded the village library. He died May 19, 1819. His 
sons were Frederick, George, and Nathan Camp. 

William Camp was killed by the bursting of the boiler of the 
steamboat Susquehanna at Nescopeck Falls, opposite Berwick, 
Pa., May 5, 1826. In 1812, Mr. Camp was appointed an associate 
judge of Tioga county, and was reappointed in 1817. 

Gen. Anson Camp was born October 17, 1784. He was engaged 
in the hat manufacturing business and kept a hat store. He was 
brigadier general of the 41st Brigade of Infantry. He represen- 
ted Tioga county in the assembly, in 1825. He was president of 
the village, in 1832 and 1833, and supervisor of the town five years. 
He died in Owego, March 22, 1838, Gen. Camp was unmarried. 

Hermon Camp 'was born in 1777. He went from Owego to 
Trumansburg, Tompkins county, in December, 1805, as clerk in a 
store, which his brothers, William and Nathan, had established 
there. He became a prominent man in that county. He held tfie 
offices of sheriff and member of assembly, and was for several 
years president of the Tompkins County Bank at Ithaca. He died 
at Trumansburg, June 8, 1878. 

George Sidney Camp, the second son of William and Abigail 
(Whittlesey) Camp, was born at Owego, February 5, 1816. Hav- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 33 1 



ing made his preparatory studies at the Owego academy, he 
entered, in February, 1832, the last term of freshman year, Yale 
College, from which at the close of sophomore year he removed 
to the University of the City of New York. He was a winner at 
Yale, as a member of the sophomore class, of the first prize for 
English composition. Leaving the university at the close of his 
junior year he studied law, first in the office of Hon. Stephen 
Strong, at Owego, and subsequently in the office of Hon. Ger- 
ardus Clark, at the City of New York, and was admitted to the 
bar as an attorney, May [8, 1838. He practiced law the first two or 
three years of his professional life, in the City of New York, a por- 
tion of the time, that is from November, 1839, ^s a partner of Hon. 
Thomas W. Clerke, who was afterward elected a justice of the 
supreme court. December 16, 1841, he returned to Owego, where 
he has ever since resided. He was compelled to seek a country resi- 
dence by the breaking down of his health from an attack of 
laryngitis, which became chronic, and of which he has never 
since been entirely cured ; so that all of his subsequent profes- 
sional life has been that of one more or less an invalid, subject, as 
he has thus been, from the slightest cause, to contract a cold that 
rendered all professional labor absolutely impracticable, and hav- 
ing been, for jperiods of four or five years at a time, wholly un- 
able to try or argue a cause. The effects of this chronic evil yet 
tell upon his health and life. 

During the early residence of Mr. Camp in the City of New 
York, and in the year 1841, he contributed to the then popular 
Harper s Family Library, a volume on " Democracy ; " subse- 
quently, in 1852, translated into Spanish, and published in Bogota, 
by Lbrenza Maria Lleras, secretary of state' of New Granada. 

On returning to Owego he entered into partnership with Mr. 
Strong. That copartnership continued, with the exception of 
the two years of 1846 and 1847, that the latter was in congress, 
until the year 1856, when Mr. Strong was elected judge of Tioga 
county. During this period Mr. Camp held the only public office 
he ever *lled, which was that of district attorney of Tioga 
county, to which he was appointed in 1845. 

In 1851, he had the sole charge, as the attorney of Metcalf 
Thurston, to mark out the line of defence and make the neces- 
sary preparation to defend him (as was successfully done), from 
an indictment for the murder of his brother-in-law, Anson Gar- 
rison, Governor Daniel S. Dickerson being the leading, and Hon. 
John J. Taylor, the associate counsel. 



332 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



The only case of any general public interest of which he has 
lately had the principal charge, is the McGraw-Fiske will 
case, against the Cornell University, which was argued before the 
general term of the supreme court of the fourth judicial depart- 
ment of New York, at Utica, in April, 1887; and in the argument 
of which for the family of the testatrix, he was associated with 
Judge George F. Comstock, of Syracuse, and Hon. Esek Coweri, 
of Troy. The amount of property at stake in the controversy 
is a million and a half of dollars, and four days' time were allowed 
by the court for the argument of the case on both sides. 

The only literary labor, aside from the volume of Harper's 
Family Library, above mentioned, that he has ever veritured upon, 
was undertaken at the suggestion of his then pastor, Rev. Dr. 
Samuel H. Hall, and was published in two numbers of the .^w^re- 
can Presbyterian Theological Quarterly Review for April and July, 
1865, on the subject of^"The Government of the Primitive 

Church." i;,.omV/ \i.....'V: ^^^^e^> 

During the past fourteen years'he has devoted himself, at in- 
tervals of professional labor, to the cult'ivation of his farm of 135 
acres, that forms the eastern limit of the village of Owego, and 
to the rearing of thoroughbred Jersey cattle. To these the 
methods of modern and scientific agriculture have been studi- 
ously and liberally applied. 

Mr. Camp is one of the oldest, if not the oldest lawyer, engaged 
in the active practice of the law in the New York southern tier 
of counties, and he can hardly look forward to the much longer 
continuance of a laborious professional career which already 
covers the period of half a century. 

General Isaac B. Ogden was born in New Jersey, in 1805. His 
mother died when he was a child, and he was brought up by his 
grandmother, Mrs. Canfield, of Smithboro. He learned the trade 
of a cabinet maker, in Owego, and then spent several years in 
New York city. He subsequently returned here and engaged 
extensively in cabinet making, in company with Messrs. Dana 
and Kingsbury. He was greatly interested in the welfare and 
improvement of Owego. He held various offices of trust, chief 
of which was president of the village, from 1846 to 1849, inclu- 
sive. He was a member of the board of trustees eleven years. 
General Ogden died in Owego, April 14, 1868. 

General Oliver Huntington was born December 22, 1771, and 
came to Owego in 1804, settling on the Huntington creek (so 
named in honor of him), about a mile north of the Court House. 



TOWN Of owego. 333 

lie opened the first drug-store in Owego, and was also engaged 
in shipping produce down the river. In 1812 he was commis- 
sioned Brigadier-General of the 41st Brigade of New York 
Infantry. In 18 14, he was commissioned sheriff of Broome county, 
■which then comprised, in addition to its present territory, four of 
the towns of Tioga county. He died in Owego, November 13, 
1823. One of his sons. Wait T. Huntington, was a merchant at 
Ithaca, and was elected clerk of Tompkins county in 1837. He 
■was an ingenious man, and was the inventor of the calendar 
attachment now in use on clocks, and other valuable patents. 

Major Horatio Ross was one of Owego's earliest merchants 
and a gentleman of wealth. He was born about the year 1755, 
and came here from Frederick, Md., in 1805, and opfned a gen- 
eral country store. He was a slaveholder and brought his slaves 
with him. He failed- in business, in 1818, and did not resume 
business. He was deputy clerk of Tioga county from 1823 to 
1828. He died in Owego in November, 1828. Ma;jor Ross was 
unmarried. 

Jonathan Piatt, Jr., was a son of Major Jonathan Piatt, Sr., who 
Avas one of the earliest settlers of Nichols, to which town he came 
from Bedford, Westchester county, N. Y., in 1793. He was born 
at Bedford, October 18, 1783. In 1805, he came to Owego and 
entered Gen. John Laning's store as a clerk. Five years later he 
commenced the mercantile business for himself, which he contin- 
ued with various parties until 1849, when he retired from busi- 
ness. Mr. Piatt was one of Owegp's most public-spirited citizens. 
He was president of the village, in 1834, and a trustee from the 
incorporation of the village, in 1827, for many years. He was 
also for ,many years president of the Bank of Owego. Mr. Piatt 
and David Turner built the "red mills," two miles north of 
Owego, in 1820. His sons were Charles and Edward J. Piatt. 

William Piatt, another son of Major Jonathan Piatt, Sr., was 
born at Bedford, N. Y., October 29, 1791. He studied law in 
Owego with John H. Avery, and was the third practicing lavv^yer 
to locate in the village. He died in Owego January 12, 1855. 
Mr. Piatt was for many years agent for the tract of land known 
as Coxe's Patent. His sons were Thomas C, Frederick E., and 
William H. Piatt. 

Hon. Thomas Collier Piatt was the son of William Piatt, Esq., 
for many years a prominent and highly esteemed member of the 
bar of Tioga county, and of Lesbia (Hinchman) Piatt. He was 
born at Owego, Tioga county, N. Y., July 15, 1833. His grand- 



334 TOWN OF "OWEGO. 



father, Major Jonathan Piatt, was one of the earliest settlers of 
Tioga county, having emigrated with his father, Jonathan Piatt,, 
senior, from Bedford. Westchester county, N. Y., and settled 
upon what was for many years known as " the Piatt Homestead,'' 
in the town of Nichols. One of Mr. Piatt's uncles, the Hon. 
Nehemiah Piatt, was a former member of the senate of the state 
of New York. 

Mr. Piatt, after pursuing his preliminary studies at the Owego- 
Academy, entered the class of 1853, at Yale College, the com- 
mencement of the freshman year. He was compelled to leave 
college, on account of ill-health, in December, 1850; but received 
from the college, in 1876, the honorary degree of M. A. 

On the I2th December, 1852, he was married to Miss Ellen 
Lucy, daughter of Charles R. Barstow. Three sons, now living, 
are the fruit of this marriage: Edward T., Frank H., a graduate 
of Yale College, of the class of 1877, and a member of the New 
York law firm of McFarland, Boardman & Piatt, and Henry B., 
a graduate of Yale, of the class of 1882. , 

Mr. Piatt engaged, very early in life, in mercantile pursuits at 
Owego, and this part of his business career^ which terminated 
in 1873, was attended with remarkable success. During this- 
period, he was elected, at the early age of twenty-six years, (A. 
D. 1859,) county clerk, and clerk of the courts of the county of 
Tioga, and officiated during three years in that capacity, to the 
universal satisfaction of the public. 

At the commencement of the civil war of the rebellion, no citi- 
zen of the county was more active, or efficient, in stimulating the 
enlistment of volunteers ; or, during the whole continuance of 
the strife, in organizing and promoting the measures necessary 
to secure enlistments and recruits, and in providing for the sub- 
sistance and comfort of the families of soldiers who were at the 
front. 

From this time forward, he took a leading and very controll- 
ing position in the politics of Tioga county ; but he exhibited a 
marked self control, and great political sagacity, in patiently 
waiting to serve and' promote the advancement of others, before 
aspiring to any other personal preferment, instead of impatiently 
and selfishly grasping, as so many other politicians commonly 
do, at every object, great or small, that comes within their reach. 

It was not, therefore,- until the contest arose for the member- 
ship of the 42d congress, that he was nominated, in 1871, as the 
Republican candidate, by the Republican convention of the 28tb 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 335'. 



district of the state of New York. This nomination he declined.^ 
But he was again nominated, and was elected, to represent the 
same district, in the 43d congress, (A. D. 1873 ;) and, again 
renominated and elected to represent the same district, in the 
44th congress, (A. D. 1875 ;) when, having thus served twO' 
terms, (4 years,) he declined any further renomination. During 
these congressional terms, he was a prominent and influential- 
member of the committee on postoffices^and post roads; and, also,- 
of the committee 011 the Pacific railroad. As a member of con- 
gress, he acquired the unlimited confidence of the Republican 
administration, and was honored with, and ever afterwards- 
retained, the warm personal friendship of the president, Gen. 
Grant. The personal popularity of Mr. Piatt, whiich, these 
repeated evidences of public favor sufficiently attest, was faith- 
fully earned, not only by a laborious and conscientious discharge- 
of his public duties, as a congressman, but by a prompt, uniform,- 
and orderly attention to any matters of private interest, or busi- 
ness confided to him by his constituents of whatever party. 

In 1879, he became connected with the United States Express 
company, as its general manager and president, and has ever 
since discharged the duties of those offices, at the City of New 
York, where he now lives. 

In the exciting campaign of of 1877, Mr. Piatt was chosen per- 
manent chairman of the Republican state convention vs^hich was- 
held at the city of Rochester, N. Y.; and, on taking his seat,, 
delivered an address which must be still fresh in the memory of 
all, as one of singular appropriateness, and exhibiting very 
marked abihty. 

In the year 18S0, he was appointed by Gov. Cornell a com- 
missioner of quarantine for the term of three years, and became 
president of the board. This office he still holds. 

Prior to this period, he had become largely interested in a 
very extensive enterprise for the manufacture and sale of lumber, 
in the state of Michigan, which was followed by the success- 
which has, so far, universally attended all of Mr. Piatt's business- 
undertakings, and which was advantageously and profitably 
closed out in 1 88 1. 

Mr. Piatt was elected, by both houses of the state legislature,, 
a member of the senate of the United States from the state of 
New York, to succeed Hon. Francis Kernan, whose term ex- 
pired March 4, 1881. It was known to some of Mr. Piatt's most 
intimate friends that he did not find the position, though so grat- 



336 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



ifying to his utmost personal ambition, absolutely free from all 
•countervailing elements ; and he never obtained, with the geur 
«ral public, the credit to which he was, in fact, justly entitled, 
of being the first to form, and impart to his more distinguished 
colleague, his private purpose of resigning; a purpose which 
he carried into effect, May i6, 1881. 

Mr. Piatt was for several years a very efficient member of the 
Republican New York state committee ; and afterwards a mem- 
iber, and one of the executive committee, of the Republican na- 
tional committee. He was also a delegate from the state of New 
York to the last three Republican national conventions. 

Mr. Piatt has been, for many years, president of the Tioga 
National Bank of Owego, president of the Southern Central rail- 
road, and a director of several other railroads. He is also one 
of the principal proprietors of the very extensive and successful 
agricultural works at Owego, where the Champion grain drill 
and Champion wagon are manufactured ; the business name of 
the copartnership being " Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co." 

It cannot be denied that, in all the vicissitudes of party poli- 
tics, Mr. Piatt has invariably maintained a position of command- 
ing influence. This position has been due to his very just per- 
ception and estimation of the characters of men, his personal 
knowledge of the individual relations and political histories of 
:SO many influential politicians, his accurate appreciation of the 
motives that control human actions, and his sound practical sense 
and judgment in applying those means and resources to practice. 
Results have too often borne testimony to his great executive tal- 
ent and ability to admit of their being questioned by the most 
jealous and envious critic. Aside from these elements, however, 
•one must have known but very little of Mr. Piatt, personally, to 
have not discovered that his methods of dealing with men are 
eminently satisfactory, because singularly outspoken, frank and 
honorable, and exempt from all tergiversation and treachery. 
One soon learns from him, very distinctly, whetheror not he can 
have his political support ; and if he gets an assurance of it, that 
support is given with remarkable and unreserved heartiness. 

Mr. Piatt never forgets a kindness rendered, and is unstinted 
in his effort to more than repay the obligation. Perhaps it is his 
greatest defect as a politician, that he is but too apt to be equally 
mindful of any demonstrations of a contrary character. His 
old neighbors in Tioga county need not be reminded with what 
a generous hand he has found positions for, and bestowed per- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 337 



sonal favors upon, so many, that probably to no other man liv- 
ing in that locality are so many thus indebted. And yet, these 
have all been most quietly and unostentatiously bestowed ; with- 
out reclamation for the favor rendered, and without invidious 
reproaches, if that favor has been ungenerously and ungratefully 
forgotten. 

. John R. Drake, for many years one of the most public-spirited 
citizens of Owego, was a son of Rev. Reuben Drake, and born at 
Pleasant Valley, Orange Co., N. Y., November 28, 1782. He 
■came to Owego in October, 1809. Judge Drake was for many 
years engaged in the mercantile business and in the manufacture 
of lumber. He was first judge of Broome county from 1815 to 
1823, and of Tioga county from 1833 to 1838. He was* member 
of congress from 1817 to 1819 ; member of assembly in 1834 ; and 
president of the village of Owego from 1841 to 1845, inclusive. 
He died in Owego, March 21, 1857. He had but one son, Theo- 
dore Drake, who resides at Fredericksburg, Va. Ju.dge Drake 
was a public-spirited citizen, and prominent in all measures for 
the- benefit of the village. 

Dr. Godfrey Waldo came to Owego from Plymouth, N, H., in 
the summer of 1810, and practiced medicine here until 1839, 
■when he removed to Birmingham, Mich. ; thence he removed, in 
1845, to Pontiac, in the same state, where he died, September 16, 
1848. 

Dr. Jedediah Fay was born at Hardwick, Mass., January 30, 
1786. He came to Owego, in 181 1, and commenced the practice 
of medicine in company with Dr. Samuel Barclay. He afterward 
engaged in the mercantile business. From 1830 to the time of 
his death he conducted a drugstore. In 1815 he was commis- 
sioned captain of a troop of the 8th regiment of cavalry. In 1820 
tie became surgeon of the 53d regiment of infantry, which posi- 
tion he resigned three years later. He was postmaster of Owego 
from 1820 to 1842. He died in Owego, April 23, 1848. His sons 
are George W. Fay, of Owego, and Frederick J. Fay, of Colum- 
bus, Ohio. 

Isaac Lillie was a school-teacher and land surveyor. He was 
born at Scotland, Windham Co., Conn., in 1789, and came to 
Owego in 1814. He died here September 23, 1864. 

John Ripley was born at Coventry, PoUand Co., Conn., in 1792, 
and removed to Owego in 18 14. He was under-sheriff of Tioga 
county from 1823 to 1832, and justice of the peace from 1853 to 



338 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



^1857. He was re-elected in 1858, and continued in office until 
his death, which occurred January 22, i860. 

Col. Henry McCormick was born at Painted Post, N.Y., March 
5, 1791, and died at St. Peter, Minn., May 22, 1874. In 1812, he 
went to Newtown (now Elmira) and enlisted as a volunteer in 
the army. He came to Owego to reside in 1814. He was the- 
first gunsmith in Owego. In the latter years of his life he was- 
engaged in farming. He was sheriff of Tioga county from 1828- 
to 1831, and also a member of the Board of Trustees of Owego- 
village, in 1832 and 1833. 

Stephen Strong was born in Connecticut, October 11, i79ir 
and removed with his parents to Jefferson county, N.Y., when 
very young. In 1814 or 1815, he came to Owego, where he at 
first taught school and afterward studied law. He was district 
attorney of Tioga county from July, 1836, to July, 1838, and 
was reappointed in 1844. He was appointed first judge of 
Tioga county April 18, 1838, and held J:hat office until February 
2, 1843. He was elected to the office of county judge, in 
November, 1855, and served four years. He was also the repres- 
entative of the 22nd district in the congress of 1845-7. He 
died at Waterloo, N.Y., April 5, 1866, to which place he had 
removed the year previous. 

Stephen B. Leonard was born in New York cit}', April 15, 
1793, ^^^ came to Owego in his 3'outh with his father, Silas 
Leonard. He learned the printer's trade in the office of the 
American Farmer. He purchased the office, and in 1814, changed 
the name of the paper to The Owego Gazette, which he continued 
to publish until 1835, when he was elected to congress. He was 
re-elected in 1839. Mr. Leonard was postmaster of the village 
of Owego from 1816 to 1820, and from 1844 to 1849. He was a 
village trustee, in 1822 and 1823, and supervisor of the town in 
1854 and 1856, Duringthe administration of President Buchanan^ 
■ he was a deputy United States marshal. In 18 16, he established 
the first stage route from Owego to Bath. He had previously 
carried the first mail through Tioga county on horseback, in 
order to deliver his newspaper. He died in Owego, May 8,, 
1876. His sons are William B. Leonard, of Brooklyn ; Hermon 
C. Leonard, of Portland, Oregon, and George S. Leonard, of 
Owego. 

Latham A. Burrows was born at Groton, Conn., in 1793, and 
was admitted to the bar of Tioga county, in 18 16. From Febru- 
ary 14, 1821, to January I, 1822, he was county clerk of Broome 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 339 



county, and from 1824 to 1827, inclusive, an associate judge of 
Tioga county. In 1827, he was elected first judge of Tioga county, 
feeing the first professional lawyer who sat upon the bench of 
the common pleas in this county. He was also state senator from 
1824 to 1828. He commenced a general mercantile business in 
•Owego in 1828. During his mercantile career he was president 
of the village from 1836 to 1839, inclusive. He subsequently re- 
imoved to Buffalo, where he died on the 25th of September, 1855. 
, Colonel Amos Martin was borp at Salisbury, Conn., in 1775, 
;and removed, in 1815, to Candor, in this county, where he opened 
a country store. Two years later he removed to Owego, where he 
continued the mercantile business until his death, which occurred 
May 14, 1835. While engaged in the mercantile business, he was 
also proprietor of the hotel known as the Goodman Coffee House, 
from 1819 to 1823. Colonel Martin's sons are John H. Martin, of 
Kansas City, Mo., and Jay H. Martin, of Tioga Center. 

David Turner was a son of Abner Turner, one of the earliest 
.•settlers on the Owego creek, in the town of Tioga, three miles 
north of Owego village, and was born in 1800. He was engaged 
in the mercantile business in Owego from 1818 to 1835, most of 
the time with Jonathan Piatt, Jr. His son, Edward Turner, re- 
isides at Flint, Mich. , 

John Carmichael was born at Johnstown, Montgomery (now 
Fulton) county, N. Y., August 12, 1795. He learned the trade of 
a jeweler and watchmaker, in Albany. He came to Owego in 
October, 1819, and opened a jewelery store, continuing in busi- 
ness until September, 1849. He was the first collector of the vil- 
lage of Owego, at the time of its incorporation, in 1827, and was 
re-elected every year thereafter until 1834, inclusive. He was 
village assessor four years, and was elected treasurer df Tioga 
•county, in 1837. He died in Owego, April 24, 1878. His sons 
were Charles S. and Horace Carmichael. The former is still a. 
resident of Owego. 

Ziba A. Leland was one of the early lawyers of Owego, and was 
t)orn in Vermont. He came to this village and formed a law 
partnership with John H, Avery May i, 1820. In April, 1822, he 
was appointed justice of the peace. From Owego he removed to 
Bath, where he was first judge of Steuben county from 1838 to 
1843. He also represented that county in the assembly, in 1842 
and 1843. Later in life he removed to Auburn, and thence to 
Saratoga, where he died. 

Gurdon Hewitt was born at New London, Conn., May 5, 1790. 



340 TOWN OF OW-EGO. 



He came with his parents to Oxford, N. Y., in 1796, and afterward 
removed to Towanda, Pa., where he engaged in the mercantile 
business. He became a resident of Owego in 1823. He was the 
first president of the Bank of Owego, and subsequently for a num- 
ber of years its cashier. Upon coming to Owego he commenced a 
general mercantile business in company with his brother-in-law, 
Jonathan Piatt, Jr; A year afterward he purchased Mr. Piatt's- 
interest and continued the business alone until 1837, when he 
formed a partnership with John M. Greenleaf. The firm of 
Greenleaf & Hewitt existed until September, 1849. There 
after Mr. Hewitt devoted his entire attention to the banking 
business and the management of his large property. He died in 
Owego, December 24, 1871. His sons are Gurdon and Frederick 
C. Hewitt. 

Dr. Ezekiel B. Phelps was born at Hebron, Conn., in 1800- 
After graduating at the New Haven Medical College, in 1824J he 
practiced medicine at Manchester, Conn. In September of the 
same year he removed to Owego, where he has since resided. 

John M. Greenleaf was born at Granville, Washington county, 
N. Y., May 19, 1806. He came to Owego in the fall of 1826. "In 
1833 he entered into the mercantile business with Lyman Truman, 
which partnership continued three years. From 1837 to 1849 he 
was engaged in the same business with Gurdon Hewitt. He'died 
in Owego, August 23, 1881. His son, Dr. J. T. Greenleaf, resides- 
in Owego. 

Ezra S. Sweet was born at New Bedford, Mass., June 3, 1796. 
He came to Owego in December, 1825, and cpmmenced the prac- 
tice of law. He was for several years a justice of the peace, and 
was district attorney of Tioga county from 1838 to 1841, and from 
1847 to r85i. He also represented the county in the assembly, in 
1849. He died in Owego, October 16, 1869. He has one sur- 
viving son, Charles H. Sweet, who resides in Elmira. 

Aaron P. Storrs was born at Mansfield, Conn., in 181 1, and 
came to Owego with his uncle. Rev. Aaron Putnam, in December, 
1827. In September, 1835,, he engaged in the general mercantile 
business, and has continued in that and the hardware business, with 
various partners, until the present time. He is at present a mem- 
ber of the hardware firm of Storrs, Chatfield & Co. 

Thomas Farrington was born at Delhi, Delaware county, N. 
Y., February 12, 1799. At the age of thirteen years he was an 
orderly upon the staff of his father. Gen. Putnam Farrington, in 
the war of 181 2. He graduated at Union College, in 1826, and 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 341 



Game to practice law in Owego in 1828. He represented Tioga 
county in the assembly in 1833 and 1840, and was appointed surro- 
gate of the county April 30, 1 835. He was a member of the board 
of trustees of the village of Owego in 1839 ^nd 1857, and presi- 
dent of the village in 1850. He was appointed treasurer of the 
state of New York on February 7, 1842, and served until Febru- 
ary 3, 1845. In the latter year he was appointed adjutant-general' 
of the state. He was re-appointed state treasurer February 2^ 
1846, and served until November 2, 1847. He was elected judge 
of Tioga county in 1859, and was twice re-elected, serving three 
terms of four years each. He died in Owego, December 2, 1872. 
His wife was a daughter of John H. Avery. His sons are 
Edward A., of New York, and Frank J., of St. Paul, Minn. 

Dr. Ezekiel Lovejoy was born at Stratford, Conn., July 6, 1803, 
He studied medicine in New York city, and, after taking his 
degree of Doctor of Medicine, was for a time surgeon in the navy 
of the republic at Buenos Ayres. He came to Owego, in 1829, 
and was the first physician to practice Homeopathy in Owego. 
Dr. Lovejoy never held but one public office, that of supervisor of 
the town of Owego, in 1854. Hedied in Owego August 15, 1871. 
Aaron, Lyman, and Asa H. Truman, sons of Shem Truman, of 
Old Canaan, Conn., were early settlers of Park Settlement, in the 
town of Candor — Aaron, in 1804; Lyman, in 1805; and Asa H., 
in 1810. 

Aaron was born at Granville, Mass., July 27. 1785, and died 
January 13, 1823. He married Experience Park, of Connecti- 
cut, in 1805. She died in 1844. His sons were Lyman, Orin, 
Charles, Francis W., and George Truman. 

Lyman Park Truman was born at Park Settlement, March 2,1806. 
In 1830, he came to Owego and entered Asa H. Truman's store as 
a clerk. Three years afterward he commenced the mercantile 
business on his own account. In May, 1836, the firm of L. Tru- 
man & Brothers was formed and they conducted a successful 
lumber and mercantile business for nearly thirty years. In this 
firm Mr. Truman was associated with three of his brothers, Orin^ 
Frank, and George. In 1856, Mr. Truman became president of the 
Bank of Owego, and cojntinued at the head of that institution and 
its successor, the First National Bank of Owego, until a short 
time prior to his death. During his active life Mr. Truman filled 
various town offices, from constable to supervisor. In 1857, 
he was chosen state senator from the 24th district, and was 



342 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



-re-elected in 1859 and 1861. He died in Owego, March 24, i88i,. 
-leaving a large fortune as the result of his. active life. 

Orin Truman was born at Park Settlement, February 17; 181 1, 
,and died in Owego, September 30, 1885. He was unmarried. 

Charles Truman resides at Flemingville, where he has held the 
office of justice of the peace for nearly thirty years. He was 
born November 11, 1807. His sons are Aaron, Lyman B.,Elias 
W. and Charles F. Truman. 

George Truman was born June 16, 1816, and resides in the 
-village of Owego. He is the head of the firm of George Truman, 
Son & Co., and president of the First National Bank. His sons 
are Gilbert F., William S., and George Truman, Jr., all residents 
-of Owego. 

Francis W. Truman was born December 13, 1812, and was 
:until recently at the head of the manufacturing firm of, Gere, 
Trumftn, Piatt & Co., in Owego. 

Lyman Truman was born at Granville, Mass., in 1783, and died 
^t Park Settlement, November 2, 1822. His sons were Levi B., 
Stephen S., James and Benjamin L. Truman. Levi B. died May 
21, 1879, ^t Park Settlement. Stephen S. and Benjamin L. Tru- 
man are residents of the village of Owego. 

Asa H. Truman was born at Sparta, N. Y., February 26, 1793. 
He taught school at Park Settlement, and afterward, from 18 16 
•to 1825, kept a tavern and country store at Flemingville. In the 
latter year he came to Owego village, where he conducted a^gen- 
•eral mercantile business until his death, which occurred Febru- 
ary 6, 1848. His sons were Lucius Truman, who resides at 
Wellsboro, Pa., William H. Truman, who hves in New York, 
Charles Truman and Edward D. Truman. The latter died in 
Dixon, 111., June 6, 1862. Charles was lieutenant of a company 
of infantry during the rebellion, and was killed in battle in 1862. 
William H. Bell was born six miles north of Owego village, on 
the West Owego creek, November 18, 181 1. His father, William 
Bell, was a farmer. He was engaged in the lumber and mercan- 
tile business in Owego twenty years. He retired from active 
business in 1867. In 1870 he was stricken with paralysis, from 
the effects of which he died on the 20th of April, 1876. 

Gideon O. Chase was born at Cambridge, Washington Co., 
N. Y., March 29, 1808, and in early life was a cabinetmaker. He 
-came to Owego in 1832. He represented Tioga county in the 
.assembly in 1844 and 1845. From 1846 to 1849 he was under- 
sheriff of the county. In May, 1848, he established the Tio^a 





a 



rJ-TjT-j-v-^ 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 343 



Freeman, which he edited until its publication was discontinued, 
in September, 1850. He was in the employ of the Erie Railway 
Company from 1855 to 1867, most of the time as station-agent 
at Smithboro, at which place he died, March 26, 1887. 

Col. Nathaniel W. Davis was born at Weston, Fairfield Co., 
Conn.,. May .10, 1807. He studied law at Ithaca, and came to 
Owego to practice, in 1832. He was surrogate of Tioga county 
from 1840 to 1844, and member of assembly in 1844 ^"^ 1863. He 
was also a village trustee in 1839. 1842, and 1847, ^"^ president 
of the village in 1859 and i860. He was much interested in mili- 
tary affairs, and was for several years colonel of the 53d and 54th 
regiments of New York State militia. He died in -Owego, July 
31, 1874. His only son, Nathaniel W. Davis, Jr., is a«resident of 
the town of Tioga. 

John Mason Parker was among the earliest as well as the fore- 
most lawyers of the county. He was the son of John C. Parker, 
a prominent lawyer of Washington county, N. Y., and was born 
in Granville, in that county, June 14, 1805. He obtained his pre- 
liminary education at Granville Academy, of which institution 
the distinguished teacher, Salem Town, L. L. D., was then pre- 
ceptor, and he graduated with the highest honors at Middlebury 
College, in 1828. He pursued the study of law in the office of 
Hon. John P. Cushman, in the city of Troy, was admitted to the 
bar in 1833, and soon after settled at Owego, in the practice of his 
profession. His thorough scholarship, his well trained and logi- 
cal mind, his industry and uncompromising integrity soon won 
for him a foremost place at the bar, as well as the entire confi- 
dence and admiration of the people of the county. Marked 
deference was at once universally accorded to his legal opinions 
by all his rivals in the profession. They were characterized by 
great thoroughness of research, and the preparation of his causes 
by an absolute completeness that left no point unprovided for. 

At all times he bore a personal character not only exempt from 
reproach, but entirely above suspicion. His conversation and 
personal demeanor were always cultivated and refined, universally 
free from anything that would have offended the most delicate 
and fastidious. 

He was elected to represent the 27th (now 28th) congressional 
district of the State of New York in the U. S. House of Repre- 
sentatives two consecutive terms, from 1855 to 1859. In 1859 he 
was elected a justice of the -supreme court of the state, and was 
continued in that exalted position until his death. During the 

23* 



344 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



last six years of that period he was a justice of the general term 
of the third department, having been so designated by Governor 
Hoffman. During part of his judicial service he sat as a member 
of the court of appeals. 

In his earlier life Judge Parker was in politics a Whig, but 
upon the formation of the Republican party he became and there- 
after remained a steadfast and prominent member of that party. 

As a judge he was invariably courteous to all. He heard with 
the utmost patience and equanimity, everything that suitors had 
to urge. He never impatiently interrupted or captiously criti- 
cised counsel. He never availed himself of his position on the 
bench to demonstrate his own superiority to those who were- 
before him. He never consciously allowed any extraneous con- 
siderations to bias his opinioiis, nor tolerated officious and. 
irregular attempts to influence him. A temperament naturally 
and constitutionally nervous was subdued to equanimity by 
severe self control. And suitors uniformly' went from the 
tribunal over which he presided with the conviction that their 
cases had been thoroughly examined and considered and fairly 
and honestly decided. The numerous opinions delivered by him 
and spread through the volumes of reports from 1859 to '873 are, 
after all, his best memorial as a judge. 

The degree of LL.D. was conferred upon him by Middlebury 
College, in 1865. He was an active member of St. Paul's churchy 
Owego, and at the time of his death its junior warden. 

Judge Parker married for his first wife, Catherine Ann, daughter 
of Charles Pumpelly, of Owego, in September, 1835. She died 
in December, 1845, leaving four children, of whom two only now 
survive, Charles Edward, a prominent lawyer and now County 
Judge of Tioga county, and Francis Henry, who is Lieut.- 
Colonel of Ordnance, U. S. arm}'. On March i, 1854, he married 
for his second wife Stella A. Pumpelly, who still survives him. 

On the evening of December 6, 1873, Judge Parker died of 
apoplexy, at his residence in Owego. He was thus called away 
b)' death in the midst of his activity and usefulness, universally 
esteemed and regretted. 

Few men have lived to old age whose public and private 
course and character would bear the brightest and most search- 
ing light of investigation as well as that of Judge Parker. He 
seems to have been born with high principles and aims, with a 
humane and kindly nature, with refined tastes and a strong in- 
tellect, qualities which would have won him the confidence^ 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 345 



respect and affection of any community. He will be remembered 
as the able and upright public man and the beloved Christian 
gentleman. 

Hon. Charles E. Parker, the present county judge and sur- 
rogate of Tioga county, eldest son of John M. Parker, was born 
in Owego, August 25, 1836. He was educated at the Owego 
academy, and graduated at Hobart college, in Geneva, N.Y., in 
the class of 1857. Upon leaving college he studied law with his 
father, and was admitted to the bar in the fall of 1859. He was 
elected to the convention of 1867, held at Albany, to amend the 
constitution of 'the state of New York, and with one exception 
was the youngest member of that body. In the fall of 1883 he 
was elected to the office which he now holds. As this work is 
being published, he is a candidate for election to the office of 
justice of the supreme court of the sixth judicial district. With 
these exceptions he has held no political office, but has been 
steadily engaged in the practice of his profession in his native 
village. 

In 1865, Judge Parker married Mary, daughter of Judge 
Thomas Farrington, of Owego. He has always been a Repub- 
lican in politics, and is a member of St. Paul's church. 

As a lawyer, Judge Parker ranks among the leading 
members of the profession, and enjoys the thorou'gh confidence 
and respect of the people of the county. 

Timothy P. Patch was born at Ashburnham, Mass., December 
3, 1809. He came to Owego in February, 1834, and opened a 
meat market. He continued in that and the grocery business 
until 1855. In i860, he removed to Towanda, Pa., where he 
resided until his removal to Corning, N. Y., a few months 
previous to his death, which occurred June 30, 1882. In 1850, 
Mr. Patch built a three-story brick block in Lake street, in which 
was Patch's Hall, which at the time was the largest public hall in 
the village. 

Joshua L. Pinney was born at Armenia, Duchess Co., N. Y., 
Octol^er, 17, 1783. He came to Owego in June, 1835, and com- 
menced a drug business, which he continued in company with his 
sons, until his death, which occurred October 15,, 1855. One of 
his five sons, Hammon D. Pinney, is still a resident of Owego. 

Robert Cameron was born, in 181 7, in Chanceford township, 
York Co., Pa., and came to Owego with his brother, John Cam- 
eron, in T831, and entered the store of another brother, James 
Cameron, as a clerk. In 1840, he opened a grocery store, and 



346 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



continued in business until 1869, when he retired from active 
business. 

George B. Goodrich was born in the town of Tioga, December 
I, 1816, and came to Owego to reside, in 1831. He was, from 
1837 until his death, at the head of the dry goods store of G. B. 
Goodrich & Co. He was also president of the Owego National 
Bank from the time of its establishment, until his death, which 
occurred Jaunary 8, 1886. 

Dr. Lucius H. Allen was born in Lunenburg (now Athens), 
Greene county, N. Y., January 31, 1796. He studied medicine 
in Connecticut, and graduated at Brown University, in Provi- 
dence, R. L, in 1820. Thereafter he resided eleven years in Buf- 
falo and Cherry Valley, N. Y. He removed to Berkshire, in 
this county, in 1830, and two years later he came to Owego, 
where he has ever since resided. ' 

Andrew H. Calhoun was born in Bostpn, Mass., April i, 1798. 
He came to Owego, in 1836, and commenced the publication of 
the Owego Advertiser, which he continued until April, 1853. He 
was clerk of the state senate, in 1848-9, and canal appraiser, in 
185 1-2. In 1863, he was appointed to a clerkship in the New 
York custom house, which position he; held at the time of his 
death, which occurred in Brooklyn, December 17, 1874. 

William F. Warner was born at Hardwick, Vt., January 18, 
1819, and came to Owego, in 1834. He practiced law with Col. 
N. W. Davis, and was afterward a member of the law firm of 
Warner, Tracy & Walker. Mr. Warner was a public-spirited 
citizen, and was conspicuous in all movements for the advance- 
ment and improvement of Owego. He was clerk of the village 
from 1848 to 1854. He was the first president of the village 
elected by the people, in 1855, and was re-elected, in 1856 and 
1857. He organized the Owego Gas Light Company, in 1856, 
of which he was president, superintendent and treasurer many 
years. Since September, 1871, he has been a residentof Wa- 
verly. At present he holds the office of special county judge of 
Tioga county. Mr. Warner wrote the Centennial History of 
Tioga County, in 1876, and was the leading spirit in organizing 
the centennial celebration of the battle of New Town, and the 
erection of a monument in commemoration of that event, in 
1879. 

William P. Stone was born in Stillwater, Saratoga Co., N. Y., 
in 1810, and came with his parents to Tioga county, in 1817, and 
settled near Flemingville. In 1834, he came to Owego and en- 




l/. /^.fCt.^-t4c<.yL_^ 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 347 



gaged in the mercantile business, which he continued, with vari- 
ous partners, until February, 1874, when he retired from active 
business. 

Hon. John J. Taylor, for many years the most prominent Dem- 
ocratic politician, and one of the most prominent members of 
the bar of Tioga county, was born in the town of Leominster, 
Worcester county, Mass., April 27, 1808. His parents, John 
Taylor and Anne Taylor, came from Oldham, near Manchester, 
England. 

Leaving the common school when about fourteen years of age, 
and pursuing the studies preparatory to entering college, at the 
New Ipswich academy, in New Hampshire, and the Groton 
academy, in Massachusetts, he entered Harvard university, Cam- 
bridge, from the latter academy, in 1825, at the age of seventeen. 
He graduated therefrom in August, 1829, in a class of over sixty 
members, in which were included Benjamin Curtis, afterwards 
justice of the supreme court of the United States, George W, 
Bigelow, afterwards chief justice of the supreme judicial court 
of the commonwealth of Massachusetts. Oliver Wendell Holmes, 
Samuel F. Smith, author of " My country, 'tis of thee,'' Ben- 
jamin F. Pierce, afterwards superintendent of the coast survey, 
James Freeman Clarke, William H. Channing, and others whom 
the people, not only of this but of other countries, have delighted 
to honor. 

After graduating, he spent a few months in teaching, a part of 
the time in the high school of the Franklin Institute of Phila- 
delphia. 

In 1830, he came to the city of Troy, N. Y., and passed two 
years as a la«f student in the office of Judge David Buel, and, 
after that, some months in the office of Hon. John A. Collier, at 
Binghamton, N. Y. From Binghamton he went to Greene, Che- 
nango county, where he spent two years, part of the time in the 
study, and a part of the time in the practice of the law. 

On the last day of December, 1834, he removed to Owego, 
where be has ever since resided, and entered into a law partner- 
ship, on the 1st day of January, 1835, with the late Judge Stephen 
Strong, which continued until August, 1838, when it was dis- 
solved by mutual consent. 

On the i8th day of May, A. D., 1837, he married Miss Emily 
Laning, daughter of Mrs. Mary Anne Laning, of Owego, and the 
sister of Mrs. Ellen H. Bicking and Mary Anne Rosette, of Phil- 
adelphia, and of Augustus C, Matthias H., and John C. Laning. 



348 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



By her he had only one son, John L. Taylor, who was born June 
24, 1839, ^nd who, having espoused Miss Sarah J. Reed, is now 
the father of a family of four children, to wit, Robert J., Emile 
G., Mary L., and Emily. Mr. John J. Taylor's only daughter, 
Sarah, was born June 27, 1841, and having married Mr. L. Burr 
Pearsall, died early, leaving no issue now surviving her. 

Mr. Taylor, on his arrival at Owego, speedily won his way to 
the first rank in the profession, among members of a numerous 
bar of universally conceded ability; so that his employment on 
one side or the other of every important case became a matter of 
course. 

He took a leading part, as a Democrat, in the politics of the 
county, and was appointed by the Court of Common Pleas, in 
the year 1838, its district attorney. He discharged the duties of 
that office for five years successively, when he was compelled to 
resign it by the pressure of other business. 

In 1846, he was elected to represent the county of Tioga, in the 
convention of that year, to revise the constitution of the State of 
New York; and, in 1850, was the Democratic candidate for con- 
gress in the 26th district of the State of New York, composed of 
the counties of Chenango, Broome and Tioga, but was defeated 
by Henry Bennett, of Chenango county. 

In 1852, having been again selected as the Democratic candi- 
date for congress in the congressional district composed of the 
counties of Tioga, Tompkins, and Chemung, he was elected over 
his opponent, the Hon. Charles Cook, of Havana. He served 
as a member of the committees on foreign affairs, and on the 
District of Columbia. He stood very high in favor with the 
Democratic administration. He was tendered by President Pierce, 
but declined, the appointment of commissioner to settle the 
northwestern boundary of the United States, and his name was 
widely canvassed for collector of the port of New York. 

In 1858 he was selected as the Democratic candidate for lieu- 
tenant-governor of the state of New York, and was run on the 
ticket with Hon. Amasa J. Parker, as the Democratic candidate 
for governor. Both were defeated, the Democratic party being 
then largely in the minority in the state. 

During all this period Mr. Taylor actively and successfully 
continued the practice of his legal profession. A studious and 
laborious life had made him a master of the learning of that pro- 
fession, and great natural acuteness of discernment and thor- 
oughly sound practical common sense gave him unusual accu- 





£:/^_ 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 349 



racy in the application of its principles to cases as they arose. A 
character of unimpeachable integrity, and a habit of candid state- 
ment always inspired those he addressed with confidence, and 
his lucid and exhaustive arguments uniformally left but little re- 
maining to be said after he had finished what he had to say ; so 
that he was always a sound, effective and successful speaker, 
whether in his political addresses, or his forensic efforts. 

He assisted in the organization of the Bank of Tioga, which 
was afterwards changed to the National Union Bank, and was for 
many years its president. He was elected and officiated for many 
years as the vice-president, and afterwards as the president of the 
Southern Central Railroad Company. 

Mrs. Taylor died November 25, 1879; since whi*h time Mr. 
Taylor's own health has been so infirm as to preclude all atten- 
tion to any other business than such as the, management of her 
■estate and his own private property has made necessary. 

Frank L. Jones was born at Lisle, Broome county, N. Y., 
October 29, 1822, and came to Owego, in 1837. He was in the mer- 
cantile business, and afterwards in insurance. In February, 1868, 
he was appointed sheriff of Tioga county, to fill a vacancy. He 
was president of the village of Owego, in 1869, and postmaster 
from 1871 to 1879. In July, 1880, he was appointed agent and 
warden of Auburn State Prison, which position he held at the 
time of his death, which occurred at Coudersport, Pa., Novem- 
ber 8, 1883. While a resident of Pennsylvania, in 1852, he was 
elected sheriff of Potter county. 

Thomas I. Chatfield was born at Great Barrington, Mass., 
September 16, 1818. He was by trade a baker, and when he came 
to Owego, in March, 1839, he worked as a journeyman until the 
following October, when he commenced business on his own 
account. He afterward engaged in the grocery business, which 
he continued until a short time previous to his death, which oc- 
curred May 2, 1884. Mr. Chatfield was a prominent and public- 
spirited citizen. He served four years as village trustee, and 
three years as village supervisor. He was also president of the 
village, in 1868. In 1853, he represented Tioga county in the 
assembly, and was a candidate for state treasurer, in 1869. He 
was a member of the state senate, in i87iand 1872. He was also 
treasurer of the Tioga County Agricultural Society, for many 
years. He has one son, T. I. Chatfield, Jr., who resides in 
Owego. 

Alanson Munger was born at Ludlow, Mass., February 5, 1801. 



350 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



In 1827, he removed to Hamilton, N. V., and thence to Owego, 
in 1840. He formed a law partnership with Stephen Strong, 
which continued two years. He practiced law during the re- 
mainder of his life with no partner. He was appointed judge of 
Tioga county, in February,, 1843, ^"d surrogate, in Januarj', 1844, 
He was elected district attorney, in 1850, and special county judge, 
in 1861. He died in Owego December 31,. 1877. 

Charles A. Hunger, a son of Alanson Munger, was born at 
Hamilton, N. Y., July 13, 1830. He commenced the practice of 
law when he was twenty-one years of age. He held the office of 
justice of the peace, and was special county judge of Tioga 
county from 1853 to 1855, and from 1865 to 1867. He was a gen- 
tleman of fine culture, a contributor to the magazines, and a poet 
of ho ordinary genius. A volume of his poems was published, in 
1874, subsequent to his death, which occurred September 3, 1873. 

Dr. Hiram N. Eastman was born in Herkimer county, N. Y., 
August 17, 1 8 10. He graduated as a physician at Fairfield Med- 
ical College, in 1838, and commenced practice at Candor, in this 
county. In January, 1840, he removed to Owego, where he re- 
sided until December, 1861, when he removed to Geneva, where 
two years previously he had been appointed Professor of Materia 
Medica and Theory and Practice of Medicine, in Geneva Medical 
College. In August, 1870, he was appointed lecturer on Materia 
Medica and Hygiene at the University of Buffalo. He subse- 
quently removed to Waverly, Iowa, where he remained until 
October, 1874, when he returned to Owego, where he died on 
the 14th day of October, 1879. His sons are Dr. C. C. Eastman, 
of the Binghamton insane Asylum ; Dr. R. W. Eastman, of 
Owego ; Rev. Rush Eastman, of Torresdale, Pa.; and Rev. George 
N. Eastman, of New York city. 

Henry N. Hubbard was born at Middle Haddam, Mass , Jan- 
uary 18, 1809. He came to Owego in September, 1841, as a clerk 
for Greenly & Shapley, merchants. In May, 1843, he became a 
member of the firm, one of the partners retiring, and he contin- 
ued in business until his death, which occurred on the 8th of May, 
1883. He has one son, Henry D., who resides at Torrington, 
Conn. 

Arba Campbell was born in Lebanon, Madison county, N. Y., 
March 3, 1809. When but two years of age his parents removed 
to Susquehanna county, Pa. When grown to manhood, he spent 
the summer months in buying and selling wool, and the winter 
in teaching school. He subsequently went to New York city. 




C^o^^^JUl h.fo^< 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 35 1 



where he remained until 1842, when he removed to Owego and 
engaged in the wool trade, in which he was successful. To this 
business he added that of pulling and tanning sheep skins. At 
about forty years of age he became interested in farming, partic- 
ularly in agricultural chemistry, making many scientific experi- 
ments and giving much of his time and thought to it. The results 
of his experiments have been frequently published, and are re- 
markably instructive. During a sojourn abroad, Mr. Campbell 
visited the farms of France and England, obtainmg much informa- 
tion from observation, which was subsequently applied to experi- 
ments here. Mr. Campbell owns four farms — two in Tioga county, 
one in Chemung county, and one in Pennsylvania, in Bradford 
county. * 

Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy was born at Apalachin, in 1829, and 
is the son of , Benjamin Tracy, of whom mention is made in the 
history of the settlement of Apalachin. In early life he taught 
school in Owego, and afterward studied and practiced law. In 
November, 1853, when but twenty-four years of age, he was 
elected district attorney of Tioga county, and' in 1856, he was re- 
elected over Gilbert C. Walker, who was subsequently his law part- 
ner and afterward governor of Virginia. The law firm of Warner, 
Tracy & Walker was dissolved a short time previous to the 
breaking out of the rebellion. In 1862, General Tracy was 
elected to the assembly, and in the same year he organized the 
109th regiment, N.Y. vols., of which he was the colonel. He 
served with distinction in the battles of the Wilderness and 
Spottsylvania Court-house, and after returning from the front 
was placed in command of the rebel prison camp and head- 
quarters for drafted men, in Elmira. At the close of the war he 
went to Brooklyn, where he resumed the practice of law, 
October i, 1866, he was appointed United States district attorney 
for the eastern district of New York by President Johnson, and 
again January 23, 1871, by President Grant. At the end of his 
second term he declined reappointment and renewed his law 
practice, in company with his brother-in-law, General Catlin. 
He was a member of Plymouth church, and in the celebrated 
Beecher-Tilton trial was prominent among the counsel for the 
defence. General Tracy was appointed an associate judge of 
the court of appeals of, this state, December 9. i88i, in place of 
Judge Andrews, promoted to chief judge. At the close of his 
term of office he declined a renomination. He is now out of 



3S2 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



active politics and devoting his attention to his law practice in 
Brooklyn. 

Hiram A. Beebe was born in the town of Bridgewater, Pa., 
March ii, 1817, and learned the printer's trade in the office of the 
Montrose Volunteer. In January, 1843, he came to Owego and 
became editor of the Gazette, continuing his connection with that 
newspaper until September i, 1880, with the exception of about 
a year, in 1846, when he resided at Westfield, Mass., where he 
edited the Westfield Standard. During his residence at West- 
field he was elected a member of the Massachusetts legislature. 
Mr. Beebe was president of the village of Owego, in 1852 and 
1871, and postmas,ter nine years from May, 1853. 

Ezra S. Buckbee was born, in March, 1827, three miles north 
■of the village of Owego. He came to Owego when sixteen years 
of age. He was engaged in the mercantile busijiess until his 
•death, which occured August 10, 1883. He was supervisor of 
the town of Owego, in i86i, and was twice elected treasurer of 
Tioga county, serving from 1854 to i860. 

Charles R. Barstow was born at Great Barrington, Mass., in 
March, 1804, and came to the town of Nichols, in 1816. He was 
loan commissioner of Tioga county from 1840 to 1842. He was 
•elected sheriff, in 1843, and member of assembly, in 1846. 
From 1849 to 1853, he was postmaster of Owego. In April, 1865, 
he was appointed a port warden of New York city, and held that 
■office until August, 1868. He died at Big Rapids, Mich., 
December 10, 1880. 

Hon. William Smyth was born in County Derry, Ireland, June 
19, 1 8 19. His ancestry, both on his father's and mother's side, 
were among the defenders of Londonderry, strongly supporting 
King William, Prince of Orange, in the struggle for Protestant 
ascendency, which at that time caused such intense bitterness in 
Ireland. 

The subject of this memoir, having received a thorough class- 
ical education, entered the Royal Academic Institute, Belfast, 
irom which he was graduated, in 1842, having taken second honors 
in the Greek and moral philosophy classes. He also spent two 
jears in Edinburgh University. For the next three years he was 
■engaged as a private tutor in a gentleman's family, and prepared 
three young men for entering Glasgow University. He was 
afterward employed as principal of a classical school in County 
Derry. 

In 1847, he married Martha, eldest daughter, of Daniel Stewart 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 353 



Mackay, of Moss Side, County Antrim. The same year lie emi- 
;grated to America, landing in New York the 27th of November. 
For a few months his time was employed in writing contribu- 
tions to the New York Sun and New York Observer. March 4, 
1848, he visited Owego, and was engaged by the trustees of the 
Owego Academy as principal, entering upon his duties the 12th 
of April following, which position he retained until June, 1854, 
when he resigned on account of ill health. The most successful 
period in the history of the Owego Academy was during his 
administration. The management found it necessary to add three 
departments, and he had engaged six assistants, having an aver- 
age attendance of 250 pupils. 

In 1854 he purchased the Owego Advertiser, and sot)n there- 
after changed the name to the Owego Times, which name it has 
since retained. As a journalist Mr. Smyth occupies quite a 
prominent position. 

In 1857, Mr. Smyth was elected school commissioner of Tioga 
county, and re-elected, in i860, this time by the very large 
majority of 1,012 votes. The same year he was appointed village 
clerk; in 1863--64 he served as trustee of the village, and in 
1865-67 was its president; in 1867, was appointed justice of the 
peace ; in 1872, he represented Tioga county in the assembly ; in 
1873, was appointed deputy superintendent of the state insurance 
■department, which ofHce he "held for three years, and at the 
resignation of the Hon. O. W. Chapman, he became acting super- 
intendent, and held the office for one year, until his successor 
was appointed. It was during his incumbency that a rigid 
examination of insurance companies conimenced, which resulted 
in the indictment of the officers of the Security Life Insurance 
company, of New York. Pending this examination, frauds were 
■discovered, and Acting Superintendent Smyth energetically 
pressed the case, and' secured the indictment and conviction of its 
president and vice-president, being the first instance in the history 
of life insurance in this state where the president of a life com- 
pany was convicted. 

Mr. Smyth has always taken a commendable interest in the 
material development of the village. During the time he was its 
president many desirable improvements were consummated. 
Among other items, the first steam fire-engine was purchased 
during his administration. In 1862, '63, and '64, he was chief 
engineer of the fire department,' which organization owes much 
of its present success to the energy and enterprise of Mr. Smyth. 



354 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



In 1 88 1, he was for the fourth time elected president of Owego 
village. During his presidency he secured a free bridge across 
the Susquehanna river. On the last day of his term that year, 
he, ably assisted by many of the most progressive citizens, suc- 
ceeded in raising $25,000 in cash or equivolent securities and paid 
that amount over to the president of the Bridge company, taking 
therefor a warranty-deed from the Bridge company to the Town 
of Owego. This removed one of the greatest obstructions to the 
material and numerical progress of the village. This toll bridge 
had existed for 50 years. The increase in travel across this bridge 
since it became free is at least ten fold. 

William Smyth is now and he has been since its organization 
an active and efficient member of the Republican party. He was 
chairman of the Whig delegation sent to the Syracuse convention, 
in 1856, from Tioga county, and with Hon. John A. King, presi- 
dent, marched from Corinthian hall to Weiting hall where the 
Free Soil Democrats and anti-Slavery Whigs united, forming the 
Republican party whose glorious record in the State of New 
York need not be mentioned in this connection. 

Rev. William H. King, D. D., was born in the town of Otsego, 
Otsego Co., N, Y., Octobers, 1820. His father, William King, 
was a farmer. He attended school at Franklin, Delaware county, 
and at Madison University, from which institution he graduated 
as Master of Arts, in 1857. Ten years afterward the degree of 
Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon him by the same institu- 
tion. In 1843, he commenced teaching in the academy at Wa- 
verly, and continued five years. While thus engaged he com- 
menced preaching. In 1849, he was ordained as a clergyman at 
Athens. Pa., and commenced his labors as pastor of the Baptist 
church of that place. In March, 1854, Doctor King accepted a 
call to Owego, and was pastor of the Baptist church of this vil- 
lage twenty-seven years. In 1881, he resigned the pastorate on 
account of poor health and declining years, and retired from 
active labor. 

Rev. James Holw'ell Kidder was born and educated at Port- 
land, Me., and graduated at the General Theological seminary, in 
New York city, in the class of i860. He was ordained deacon 
by Bishop George Burgess, in St. Luke's church, Portland, July 
II, i860, and priest, also by Bishop Burgess, in Christ's church, 
Eastport, Me., June 19, 1861. Mr. Kidder was in charge of St. 
Thomas's church, Camden, Me., until November, i860; then of 
Christ's church, Eastport, Me., about three years, until entering 



TOWN OF OWEGO. ' 355 



on the rectorship of St. Matthew's church at Unadilla, N. Y., 
July I, 1.863. Five years afterward, August i, 1868, Mr. Kidder 
came to Owego, and has since that time been rector of St. Paul's 
church. ' 

Gilbert C. Walker was born at Cuba, N. Y., August i, 1833. 
He came to Owego in August, 1855, and in 1858 became a mem- 
ber of the law firm of Warner, Tracy & Walker. He removed 
to Chicago, in 1859, ^"d thence to Norfolk, Va., in 1864, where he 
was president of the Exchange Bank of Norfolk, until 1867. In 
1869 he was elected governor of Virginia. In July, 1874, he was 
elected to congress from the third (Richmond) district, and re- 
elected, in 1876. He died at Binghamton, N. Y., May 11, 1885. 

General Isaac S. Catlin was born at Apalachin, in thfs county, 
July 8, 1833. He studied law in New York city, was admitted 
to the bar, and commenced practice in Owego. Soon afterward, 
in 1859, he became a member of the law firm of Warner, Tracy 
& Catlin. In January, 1861, he was elected president of the vil- 
lage, and served until June, when he entered the volunteer 
service of the United States, as captain of a company in the 
Third New York Volunteers. In the summer of 1862, upon the 
organization of the 109th regiment, he became its lieutenant- 
colonel, and was promoted to colonel upon the resignation of 
Colonel Tracy. In 1864, while leading the charge at Peters- 
burg, Va., he lost his leg by the explosion of a mine. After the 
war General Catlin was elected district attorney of Tioga county, 
serving from 1865 to 1868. He was appointed a colonel in the 
regular army, and was stationed two years at Louisville, Ky. He 
was promoted to Brigadier-general during this period. He after- 
ward commenced the practice of law in Brooklyn, where he has 
been twice elected district attorney of Kings county. 

Charles Austin Clark was born at Guilford Center, Chenango 
county, N. Y., on the 28th day of May, 1833. He was the eldest 
son of Austin Clark, who was born at Tolland, Conn., October 
15, 1799, and grandson of Gershora Clark, who was born Septem- 
ber 5, 1755, and who removed from Connecticut with a large 
family and settled at Guilford Center in October, 1814, where he 
died in March, 1840. Austin Clark removed with his family to 
the vicinity of South New Berlin, in the spring of 1835, where he 
resided until the spring of 1856, when he removed to the town of 
Berkshire, Tioga county, N. Y., where he resided until he died, 
April 2, 1882, having reared to manhood and womanhood five 
sons and six daughters, of whom four sons and four daughters 



356 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



survive him. At an early age Ciiarles not only manifested a de- 
sire to obtain an education, but very many scholarly and manly 
characteristics. He was endowed with an excellent memory and 
in many respects gave evidence of possessing a fine order of mind. 
His parents desired to give him a liberal education, but unfortun- 
ately they were poor. With them their son had to share all the 
labors and disadvantages of poverty. This he did cheerfully. 
Not discouraged bv adverse circumstances he pursued his studies 
zealously, and became well-known throughout the community as 
the brightest scholar and clearest and most independent thinker 
of his years. Throughout his boyhood days he attended the 
schools in his native county during the winter months, but dur- 
ing the summer it was necessary for him to work with his father 
on the farm. 

When seventeen years of age he entered uppn the labors of a 
teacher in a common school near Gilbertsville, Otsego county. 
He soon after entered the office of Dr. S. C. Gibson, of South New 
Berlin, and commenced the study of medicine. He was for some 
time a student in the University of Michigan, at Ann Arbor, and 
graduated from the medical department of that institution, in the 
spring of 1853. 

He commenced the practice of medicine as a regular physician, 
at Berkshire, Tioga Co., N. Y., in April, 1853. On the 30th of 
May following, he was married to Evelyn Amelia Hodges, of 
Oneonta, whose family had 'then recently removed from Morris, 
Otsego Co., N. Y., where she had been reared. Having spent 
the summer in Berkshire, Dr. Clark was induced to move to 
Bainbridge, Chenango county. Here he practiced his profession 
for a short time, but in the spring of 1854 he was induced to take 
charge of a large and flourishing select school. In this enterprise 
he was very successful, and at the next annual town meeting he 
was elected superintendent of common schools, which office he 
continued to hold as long as he remained in Bainbridge, at the 
same time keeping up his select school, which remained in a 
flourishing condition. While residing at Bainbridge his only son, 
Henry Austin, was born, March 31, 1855. He is now an attor- 
ney, having been admitted to the bar at the general term at 
Binghamton, May 5, 1876. He practices his profession in com- 
pany with his father atOwego, where he holds a very prominent 
position as a member of the bar, apd is conceded to have nO' 
superior in Tioga county in scholarly knowledge of the law, or 
ability to make application of it. In the spring of 1856, Mr. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 357 



Clark made an engagement to teach in New Jersey. After re-, 
maining a year in New Jersey, he returned, in the spring of 1857,. 
to Berkshire, to which town his father had removed, in the spring 
of 1856. Here he engaged for three years in the mercantile busi- 
ness ; then he tried, successivel^s Richford, Marathon, and One- 
onta. While residing in Berkshire, his only daughter, Emily 
Lucretia, was born, April 16, 1859. 

Having purchased a farm near Ketchumville, in the town of 
Newark Valley, he decided to retire from mercantile life. Ac- 
cordingly he went to his farm and lived upon it during the yeais- 
1864 and 1865. In early life it was his ambition to become a law- 
yer. Many obstacles, however, stood in his way. At length 
there seemed an opportunity for him to gratify his longcherished 
desire. Accordingly he devoted himself to the study of law for 
years while carrying on his business. He moved from his farm 
to Oneonta, early in 1866, entered the law office of General S. S^ 
Burnside, overcoming all obstacles, was admitted at the general 
term m Binghamton, May 15, 1867, to practice in all the courts of 
the state of New York, and was subsequently admitted to prac- 
tice in the United States courts. 

In the spring of 1867 he returned to the town of Newark Val- 
ley, and his energy soon secured for him a prominent position at 
the bar. While he resided at Newark Valley his practice ex- 
tended into the neighboring counties of Broome and Cortland. 
In 1869 he was elected supervisor of Newark Valley, and was- 
re-elected the next year, and the year following, without opposi- 
tion. In the fall of 1871, he was nominated as the candidate of 
the j^epnblican party, for the office of county judge, and after an 
exciting canvass, was elected by a majority of 822. He entered 
upon.\he duties of the office January i, 1872, and on the 29th of 
August, following, removed' his family to Owego, wheffe'he still 
resides. In the fall of 1877 he was unanimously re-nominated for 
the same office, and re-elected by a majority of 1,256. At the 
close of his second term, in the fall of 1883, Judge Clark declined 
to be a candidate for re-nomination, and beyond any question he- 
had proved one of the most courteous, able, correct and popular- 
county judges and surrogates Tioga county has ever had. In the- 
fall of 1883, Judge Clark was a prominent candidate for the nomi- 
nation for justice of the supreme court, and after a conventiorn. 
which held for five days, was barely defeated. 

In 1876 Judge Clark was elected an elder in the First Presby- 
terian church of Owego, in which church for several years he 



358 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



had been an active member, and which position he still holds. 
On March 17, 1878, his wife died, a lad}' of force of character and 
amiable disposition, full of charity and good works. 

On December 28, 1880, Judge Clark was again married, to 
Mrs. Celestia D. Arnold, widow of Captain Thomas S. Arnold 
who was killed in battle in the war of the rebellion, and a daugh- 
ter of H. Nelson Dean, late of Owego, deceased, and formerly 
of Adams, Massachusetts, where she was born and reared. Jan- 
uary I, 1884, when Judge Clark retired from the office of county 
judge, he and his son formed a co-partnership, under the firm 
name of C. A. & H. A. Clark, and since that time have enjoyed 
and at the present time continue to have a large and remunera- 
tive law practice. 

Judge Clark is now in company with his son, busily engaged 
in the pursuit of professional duties, hoping for years of success 
and enjoyment in his home and with hisfamily, having concluded 
to shake the dust of politics from his garments and devote his life 
to his professional and personal duties. 

John J. Van Kleeck comes from Holland ancestry, whose family 
tree is readily traced back to the year 1630, when Baltus Van 
Kleeck emigrated from Holland to New Amsterdam, and whose 
descendants afterward settled in what is now the city of Pough- 
keepsie. Duchess county. New York, where they built the first 
dwelling, which was known as the " Van Kleeck House." General 
Washington made it his headquarters when in that vicinity, dur- 
ing the revolutionary war, and it long remained a very interest- 
ing landmark. The Van Kleecks took a prominent part in the 
government of the colony, and Duchess county was represented 
in the colonial assembly by Baltus Van Kleeck, Jr., in 1715-16; 
by Johannes Van Kleeck in 1726-27 ; and by Leonard Van Kleeck 
in 1768-75. 

John J. Van Kleeck is the son of John Manning and Amy Jane 
(Brock) Van Kleeck, and was born in the town of Candor, Sep- 
tember 21, 1848. His early years were passed upon his father's 
farm in Candor, and in attending the district school of the neigh- 
borhood. And with the advantages for an education afforded by 
the common schools of the state, including attendance for two 
winters at the village schools in Candor and Spencer, supple- 
mented by his reading and self-instruction, he laid the foundation 
of his mental acquirements. Determined to embark for himself 
in life, alone and unaided, in the fall of 1867, he sought and 
obtained employment as a clerk in the grocery store of Jerry S. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 359 



Kinney, of Candor, who was also at the time a justice of the 
peace. Young Van Kleeck gave to the duties of his new position 
great care, showing much aptitude therefor, and paying close 
attention to the business of the justice's office; thus evincing a 
predilection at that early age, for clerical work. His fine pen- 
manship was much admired and gained him quite a notoriety ; 
so much so that in February, 1868, he secured a position as a 
copyist in the county clerk's office, through the recommendation 
of Delos O. Hancock, Esq. , then a prominent lawyer of the county, 
with whom Mr. Van Kleeck had previously considered the advisa- 
bilitv of pursuing the study of law. 

It was in the county clerk's office, under the training of Horace 
A. Brooks, Esq., and his sister Miss Chloe, that he became con- 
versant with the duties of a position, he was destined to fill so 
acceptably. Industrious and self-reliant, he applied himself not 
only to the immediate, but to the future or contingent needs of 
the office, by examining questions in advance of the actual require- 
ment, and thus made himself of great value therein. And more- 
over, by the time he had attained his majority, he had become, 
through his own sterling worth, a recognized factor in the poli- 
tics of the county. Mr. Brooks, his senior, having served nearly 
twelve years as county clerk, was not a candidate for re-election, 
in 1873, and the Republican party nominated Daniel M. Pitcher, 
one of the party veterans, and since postmaster at Owego. The 
Greeley canvass of 1872 had divided the Republicans, and Mr. 
Van Kleeck was tendered a unanimous nomination for the office 
of county clerk b)'^ the Democrats and Liberal Republicans, which 
he accepted. The contest was very spirited, and the youth of 
Mr. Van Kleeck was urged by his opponents as an argument 
against his election ; but owing to his stl-ong following and per- 
sonal, popularity in the county, he succeeded in overcoming the 
usual overwhelming Republican majority, and was elected, thus 
becoming the first Democratic official elected in Tioga county in 
over a quarter of a century. 

His administration of the clerk's office was most excellent, and 
he naturally became a candidate for re-election in 1876. He was 
defeated, however, by a small majority, party-lines being closely 
drawn in presidential years. He then engaged in the fire insurance 
business and the negotiation of western farm loans, which busi- 
ness he still carries on, and it is a well known fact that not one 
dollar has ever been lost by any of his clients in any loan nego- 
tiated through him. In 1881, he was elected a justice of the peace 

24* 



360 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



of the town of Owego, for a full term, by a handsome majority. 
In 1882, he was again a candidate for county clerk against the 
incumbent, John C. Gray, whom he defeated by a majority of 
two hundred and thirty. In 1885, he was re-elected over Henry- 
W. Childs, the Republican candidate, by a majority of two- 
hundred and eighty, and is now serving his third term. 

While attending carefully to his public duties, Mr. Van Kleeck 
has nevertheless found time to engage in various outside enter- 
prises, and much of the business prosperity of his adopted vil- 
lage is owing to his public spirit. Among the corporations which 
he has originated and promoted are the Owego Mutual Benefit. 
Association, a popular life insurance company of which he is sec- 
retary and a director ; the Owego Cruciform Casket Company,, 
of which he is secretary, a director and acting treasurer, and the 
Owego Electric Light and Motor Company, of which he is also- 
a director and secretary. The secret of Mr. Van Kleeck's suc- 
cess lies in his urbanity, his kindness of heart, his industry, his 
integrity and self-reliance, joined with superior ability and capac- 
ity for accomplishing whatever he undertakes. Just in his deal- 
ings, faithful to his friends, and loyal to his high standard of 
manhood, he is to-day, through his own merit, one of the fore- 
most men in the county. 

On January 6, 1875, he was married to Frances Josephine Bying- 
ton, the accomplished and youngest daughter of the late Lawyer 
Byihgton, of Newark Valley. The union has proved a very pleas- 
ant and happy one. 

Nicholas Rodman, son of John and Hannah (Gorse) Rodman, 
was born in Middleburg, Schoharie county, N. Y., September 23, 
1809, and came to Owego in 1830. He located on the farm now 
occupied by him about three and one-half miles from Apalachin, 
on the river road. He married Phoebe (La Monte) Clark, by 
whom he had six children, viz.: Mary J., wife of Henry Hayes, 
Clarissa, wife of Isaac L. Potter, of Owego, Marilla, wife of 
Henry Coffin, now deceased, Charles, at present sheriff of Tioga 
county, George, of California, and Callie, wife of James Risen, of 
Gaskill's Corners. Mrs. Rodman died in 1854. 

Samuel Abbey, born January 18, 1755, married Miriam Hall 
(born March 15, 1757), April 11, 1775. They had fourteen chil- 
dren, born as follows: Rachel, February 10, 1776 ; Sheubel, Feb- 
ruary 20, 1778; Hannah, February 22,1780; Polly, Januarys, 
1782; Jerusha, Jainuary 16, 1784 ;■ Miriam, January 27, 1786; Jes- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 361 



sie, July i, 1788 ; Anna, May 2, 1790; Olive, September 25, 1792 ; 
Kuth, June 27, 1794; Pboebe, January 13, 1796 ; Lydia, March 11, 
1798; Reuben, July 13, 1800; Jemima, April 8, 1803. Reuben 
Abbey came from Schoharie county, N. Y., in 183 1. His daugh- 
ter Sabrina married John, son of Thomas Baird, May 21, 1848. 
They had five children, born as follows : James Lewis and Lewis 
James (twins) March 4, 1849; Thomas, July 2, 1851 ; William R., 
July 23, 1853; and Tryphena H., July 13, 1856. Lewis J. mar- 
ried Georgiana (born April 10, 1850), daughter of Abner Merrick, 
July 27, 1881. Their children are John A., born March 20,and 
died May 26, 1883 ; Bessie R., born September 10, 1884, and 
Jessie S., born November 18, 1886. 

.^larence A. Thompson was born in Owego, FebriAry i, 1848. 
He was educated at the Owego academy, and the Oneida Con- 
ference Seminary at Cazenovia. On the iSthday of July, 1864, 
he entered the First National Bank of Waverly, as book-keeper, 
and was subsequently assistant cashier, and afterwards cashier of 
the bank. In April, 1870, he became teller of the First National 
Bank of Owego, and, in 1881, was made assistant cashier. He 
held that position till August 6, 1883, when the Owego National 
Bank was opened, of which institution he has ever since been 
cashier. Mr. Thompson is one of the progressive young men of 
the village. He was instrumental in having the telephone ex- 
change established here, and was one of the prominent men in 
building the various steamboats plying between Owego and Big 
Island. He was treasurer of the village in 1876 and 1880, and as 
a member of the board of school commissioners, was one of the 
committee who had charge of the construction of the Free 
Academy. 

This completes the biographical sketches furnished by Mr. 
Kingman, and by the friends of the subjects of the longer ones 
accompany the portraits, and we add the following : 

Additional Sketches. — Moses IngersoU, a soldier of the revolu- 
' tion, and who served under his father. Captain Peter IngersoU, 
came from Half Moon Point, Mass., to the town of Owego, in 
1791, where he bought five hundred acres of land, and settled on 
the farm now owned by E. F. Searles. He married Lavina Lee, 
■ by whom he had five children : Mary (Mrs. Simeon Decker), 
Winthrop, Sarah (Mrs. Ephraim Wood), Nancy (Mrs. Thomas 
Day), and John. Winthrop married Anna Hall, by whom he had 
five children, who arrived at maturity : Moses, Stephen H., 



362 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



William, James, and Mary (Mrs. Merritt Ireland). William mar- 
ried Caroline, daughter of Elijah Walter, by whom he had five 
children : Mary, wife of John Miller, Delphine, wife of Gilbert 
Webster, George A., of Nichols, Clinton, and Carrie, wife of 
Garry Hunt. George A. married Huldah Cornell, by whom he 
has five children: Fred, Fannie, Lena, Willie, and Louie. 
. Hugh Fiddis was a descendant of Scotch refugees, who settled 
in the town of Enniskillen, in the northern part of Ireland. He 
came to this country in about the year 1762, and was afterwards 
married to Hannah Eldridge, of Groton, New London county. 
Conn. They had two children, Katy and Hugh Eldridge. 
Katy was born at Groton, in 1764. She married and died there. 
Hugh Eldridge was born at Groton, August 5, 1766. When he 
was about two years of age, his father, who was captain of a mer- 
chantman, was lost at sea. In 1795, he came from Con- 
necticut to Owego, where, in 1798, April iSth, he married Anna 
Brown, who was born at Brookfield, Fairfield county, Conn., 
February 11, 1777- Their children were all born at Owego, 
viz.: — Hugh Eldridge, June 15, 1793; Polly July 11, 1801 ; 
Robert November 17, 1808; James Edwin, May 22, 1819. 
The youngest son, James Edwin, married Emeline Rensom^ 
at Owego, May 28, 1845. Emeline Ransom was born April 7, 
1822, at Tioga Center. Kate, daughter of James and Emeline 
Fiddis, was born at Owego, March 11, 185 1. She was married 
May 30, 1867, to William Head, of Owego. Cora Head, their 
daughter, was born at Owego February 14, 1868.^ 

Colonel Asa Camp, born in Rhe ae^Kland in 1760, 'served in the 
revolutionary war, and though young, he was assigned the task 
■of commanding the party that buried Major Andre, the spy. 
Sometime after the close of the war he came to this town and 
settled not far from the present eastern boundary line, on the 
north bank of the river, where a considerable settlement after- 
ward sprang up, and was named Campville, for him. At the 
time he located here, the country was a dense wilderness inhabi- 
ted by wild beasts, and he was obliged to shut up his stock at 
night to protect them from the ravages of the wolves and pan- 
thers. He had to go down the river fortv miles in a canoe, 
to mill ; and once when recovering from a fever and his physician 
prescribed oysters, he was obliged to send a man with a team to 
Albany, that being the nearest point at which they could be pro- 
cured. He was justice of the peace for a long period, and had 
the reputation of a loyal, conscientious citizen, and very benevo- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 363 



lent in his conduct towards the sparse inhabitants in that section, 
who were struggling for a living. I^or many years he icept a 
public house for the accommodation of mail carriers and stock- 
men. The thoroughfares of those days were marked only by 
blazed, trees, and travelers were not numerous. His family con- 
sisted of five sons and one daughter. Pour of his sons settled on 
farms in close proximity to him. Colonel Camp died in 1848: 
His youngest son, John, born in November, 1788, settled on a 
farm near Campville in 1819, and resided there until his death in 
1870. Of his children remaining in Tioga county are Mrs. R. W. 
Hines, and John Jr. The latter has been in the employ of the 
Erie railroad since 1848, and has traveled upwards of 2,720,016 
miles. 

David Taylor, son of Cornelius, was born in the town of 
Owego, August 20, t8o2. He married Helena Tappan, January 
8, 1827. Nine children were born to them: Nancy A., October 
13, 1827; Lucy M., April 26. 1829; Cornelius, December 31, 1831; 
Charles H., April 13, 1834; Tappan A., December 16, 1836; 
Catharine, December 23, i'838 ; David C, April 15, 1841 ; Sarah, 
October ti, 1843; and Mary D., October 17, 1847. 

Richard Sykes was born early in the seventeenth century, and 
emigrated from London in 1630-33 with George Winthrop and 
others, and settled in Roxbury, Mass. He had three sons, namely. 
Increase, Samuel, and Victory. The latter had three sons, Jona- 
than, Samuel and Victory. Samuel had one son, Victory, who 
had two sons, viz.: Samuel and Victory. The latter had eight, 
sons, the second of whom was George, who, in 1811, came to 
that portion of Berkshire now included in the town of Newark 
Valley. He married Ruth Gaylord, of Connecticut, January 15, 
181 1, by whom he had six children, as follows: Ambrose B., 
Edward F., George M., Theodore P., of Owego, Horatio W., 
and Lucy J. Theodore P. married Electa B. Chapman, of New- 
ark Valley. Richard Sykes died in March, 1676, and Phoebe, his 
wife, in 1683. George Sykes died October 26, 1825, aged thirty- 
seven ye^s, and his wife', September 3, 1869, in her eighty-first 
year. 

Nathaniel Catlin, son of Nathaniel,. born September 24, 1796, 
came from New Jersey with his parents when very young. The 
family settled in Nichols about three miles below Owego on the 
farm now owned by O. W. Young. Nathaniel, Jr., married Jane 
D. Broadhead, and reared six children, namely, Delinda, wife of 
Gen. B. F. Tracy, Maria (Mrs. Avery Olmstead), Avery B., a 



364 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



customs officer of New York city, Isaac S., a lawyer of Brook- 
lyn, George, of Apalachin, and Hannah, deceased. He was one 
of the first Abolitionists of this section, and still lives on the farm 
which he has occupied for sixty years. Mrs. Catlin died in 
187s. 

Rev. John Griffing, of Guilford, Conn., married Lydia Redfield 
of that place, and came to the town of Berkshire [See Berkshire], 
and was one of the first preachers in this section. They had 
twelve children born to them — Henry, September 17, 1809; Clar- 
issa, December 29, iBio; Lydia, February 13, 1813; John, March 
26, 1815 ; Daniel S., January 7, 1817; Beriah R., March 27, 1819; 
Artemesia, March 5, 1821 ; James S., October 28, 1822; Samuel 
B., August I, 1825; Osmyn, September 22, 1828 ; Permelia, Feb- 
ruary 8, 183.1 ; and Mary M,, August 13, 1834. Samuel B., son 
of Rev. John Griffing, married Lucy M., daughter of David Tay- 
lor, of Owego, April 17, 1848. Three children were born to 
them, viz.: Helena A., July 9, 1849; Lydia Permelia, who died 
in infancy; and David T., March 31, 1853, now of Iowa. 

Dr. Samuel Standish Tinkham, a descendent of Miles Standish, 
was a graduate of Dartmouth College, and came to Owego in 
1793, where he engaged in the practice of medici"ne. He married 
Mary, daughter of Col. David Pixley, one of the original pro- 
prietors of the Boston Purchase, by whom he had three children, 
Sarah E., who was the first wife of William Pumpelly, Samuel 
Standish, who married Lois Willoughly, and David Pixley, who 
married Harriet G. Drake. Dr. Tinkham lived on Front street, 
where Mrs. Wall's house and W. C. Renwick's garden are located. 

Elisha Forsyth, of English descent, was among the very early 
settlers in this county, having come from Connecticut to Marietta, 
Pa., thence up the Susquehanna in a canoe, to Union, from whence 
he subsequently removed to this town and located at Park settle- 
ment on Owego creek. He married Freelove, daughter of Capt. 
Thoma^ ParJ£, a privateersman of the revolution. Mr. Forsyth 
spent the greater portion of his life in this town engaged in lum- 
bering and farming. Their children were' George, Catherine 
who married Nathaniel Webster, Azor, Elisha, Experience, who 
married Martin Smith, Gilbert, and Eldridge, born August 5, 
1812. The latter during his early years was engaged with his 
father in the lumber business, and subsequently in painting which 
has been his occupation for nearly forty years. He married first, 
Mary Fisher, of Ontario county, N. Y. His present wife is 
Eunice, daughter of the late Anthony M. Tyler, of Newark 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 365 



Valley. Gilbert and Azor were artists, the former having acquired 
■considerable ruputation as a portrait painter. Among his 
students was Thomas LaClear a noted painter of New York city. 
•George, born July 2, 179S, married first, Mary Chapman. His 
second wife was Rachel Puffer, by whom he had four children, 
namely: Ira, born August 6, 1831, now of Los Angeles, Cal., 
William S., born November 7, 1833, Adelaide E., born May 19, 
1836, married George H. Woughter, and Augusta, born Decem- 
ber 31, 1838, married George Sawyer. Mr. Forsyth died Octo- 
ber 5, 1876. William S., married first, Maria, daughter of Charles 
■Corbin, October 23, 1854. His present wife is Margaret, daugh- 
ter of Edward Howard whom he married June 12, 1882. His 
children born as follows, are Ettie M., August 6, 1855, George 
Roosa, May 8, 1872, and Clarence Augusto, November i, 1886. 
Elisha, Jr., was born in Owego, February 14, 1801. He married 
Wealthy L., daughter of Abel Lawrence, of Newark Valley, 
February i, 1827. Their children were Julia A., widow of John 
D. Baker, Morgiana (Mrs. Joseph Tyler) Charles, H. Truman, 
Gilbert T., George F., William L., Mary Lucina, and Edward 
A. H. Truman, born August 3, 1834, married N. Adaline, 
■daughter of Robert Williams of Greensburg, Pa., September 6, 
1863. Their children are Florence, born June 20, 1864, died 
August 3, 1865, George F., born August 12, 1866, Charles E., 
November 11, 1868, Fannie, February 24, 1871, Zenora T., June 
10, 1873, and Mary W., November 7, 1875. H. Truman was a 
member of Co. K., 76th Regt. Pa. Vol's., having enlisted July 14, 
1863, and was mustered out at the close of the war. Gilbert T., 
born August 29, 1839, married Susan E., daughter of John Lord, 
January 16, i860. Their children are Charles F., born October 
13, i860, William M., September 9, 1862, and Minnie G. and 
Mettie M., (twins) July 15, 1864. Charles F., married Anna 
Worth of Freeport, 111., and has one child, Lillian E., born 
December 3, 1884. William M., married Emma Taylor. Mary 
Lucina, married W. Harrison Camp, who served in Co. C. 23d 
Regt. N. Y. Infantry, and who re-enlisted in 1863 in the Sth N. 
Y. Cavalry. He served in many battles and skirmishes, and 
•was mustered out at the close of the war. Elisha Forsyth, Jr., 
was fife-major in the 50th N. Y. Regt., and his son George was 
■drum major of the same regiment. 

Francis M. Baker, son of John D. and Julia (Forsyth) Baker 
was born March 26, 1846. He married Mary, daughter of Jesse 
McQuigg, of Flint, Mich., February 16, 1869. They have one 



366 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



child, George H., born August 28, 1871. Mr. Baker was presi- 
dent of the New York State Firemen's Association, and is gen- 
eral superintendent of the Addison & Northern Pennsylvania 
railroad. His home is in Owego. 

John R. Drake, son of Rev. Reuben Drake, of Pleasant Val- 
ley, — now Plattekill — Orange Co., N. Y., came to Owegoin 1809, 
and located on Front street, about where the bridge now crosses. 
He was elected county "judge, represented this district in the 
assembly, and in congress. He was actively engaged in mercan- 
tile business here for many years, being a large dealer in lumber. 
He built the first dock in Owego, and the first piece of sidewalk 
laid in the town was laid by him, in front of his store. It is also- 
said that he was the first to possess a two-horse carriage and 
covered sleigh here. Being of a progressive nature, he was very 
active, and evinced great interest in getting the railroad here, 
donating nine acres of his farm to. the company. He married 
Jerusha, daughter of Rev. Joseph Roberts, by whom he had five 
children, viz : Harriet, Adaline, widow of Bradford Gere, Del- 
phine, first wife of Harmon Pumpelly, Theodore, of Fredericks- 
burg, Va., and Charlotte M., widow of Edward Raynsford, of 
Washington, D. C. Judge Drake died in 1857. Harriet married 
David Pixley Tinkham, by whom she had three children, Sarah, 
Arianna, who married Gen. William P. Innes, of Grand Rapids, 
Mich., and John F. Sarah married Edward G. Gibson, by whom 
she has one son. Dr. Edward T. Gibson, of Minneapolis, Minn. 
David P. Tinkham was a merchant in Owego, but died in 1836, 
at the early age of thirty-two years. In 1817 Mrs. Tinkham, 
accompanied by her father, left home to attend the Moravian 
boarding-school at Bethlehem, Pa. They went down the river 
on a raft as far as Berwick, and from there across the mountains 
in a four-horse covered wagon, called a stage. Her piano was- 
the first in this section, having been brought here from New 
York in 1821. 

Benjamin Bates came from Massachusetts and settled on the 
large island about three miles east of Owego. They had seven, 
children — Elisha, William, Benjamin, Prudence, Abigail, Lu- 
cinda and Rachel. Lucinda was born August 16, 1800, and in- 
1816 married Jared Lillie, by whom she had twelve children, 
Mary, Sarah, William, served in Co. A, 109th Regt.; Benjamin, 
George W., served in the 9th N. Y. Cavalry ; Jared, Abbie J., 
Charles, was a member of Co. H, 109th Regt.; James, was a mem- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 367 



ber of the same company and regiment ; Darius, served in Co. G,. 
44th Regt., and Frederick, in Co. H, 109th Regt. 

Erastus Meacham, son of Silas, was born in Cornwall, Lilch- 
field county, Conn., February 9, 1798, and came with his father's- 
family to the town of Danby when but. seven years of age, and 
remained there until he arrived at the age of fourteen, when he 
was apprenticed to a blacksmith. Having served his time, he 
came to Owego, in December, 1822, and engaged to work for a 
blacksmith named Taylor, and remained with him until the fol- 
lowing March, when he hired the shop which stood where the 
Central House now stands, and conducted the business himself. 
He afterward sold out and bought a farm of 150 acres in the 
town of Tioga, which he conducted for fifteen years. • With this 
exception Owego has been his home since 1822. He married 
Betsey, daughter of Truman Lake, of Spencer, November 9,. 
1820. Five children have been born to them, viz.: Myron E.^ 
Mary A. (Mrs. Henry Shipman), deceased ; Maria, who died in 
infancy ; Melinda and Milton H.. who also died in infancy. Mrs. 
Meacham was born in Greenville, Greene county, N. Y., January 
3, 1803, and removed with her parents to the town of Spencer 
when but twelve years of age. Mr. and Mrs. Meacham are in- 
the sixty-seventh year of their married life, and he, despite hi& 
ninety years, still attends to the business of blacksmithing and 
horse- shoeing. Melinda married John M. Head, October 3, 1849,. 
and has had nine children, born as follows : Lottie A., October 
9, 1851 ; Anna M., October 20, 1853 ; Sarah, September 9, 1856;; 
John J., March 12, 1859; Ida M. and Eddie B. (twins), August 
23, 1862 ; Frederick L. and Frank L. (twins), March 16, 1866 — 
died in September of the same year — and Linnie B., born Septem- 
ber 14, 1868. John M. Head was born February 13, 1822, was a 
member of Co. C, 137th Regt., Infy.; enlisted August 20, 1862 ;. 
taken prisoner at Chancellorsville May 2, 1863 ; was mustered 
out in June, 1865, and died April 14, 1869. Lottie A. married 
Charles D. Meacham, by whom she has had five children, born 
as follows; Ella M., April 30, 1876; Fred R., November 29, 1879J 
Leon, July 14, 1881, died August 9, of the same year; Clarence 
L., born August 16, 1883, and Merle L., born July 16, 1885, died 
March 7, 1887. Anna married Royal B. Ferguson, April 13, 1871. 

James Grimes, son of James, was born at the foot of the Green 
Mountains, in Vermont, in 1793, and when but nineteen years of 
age enlisted in the war of 1812. His uncle, Moses Grimes, having- 
located in Owego sometime previous to the war, James Jr., came 



?68 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



■on here after its close and engaged first as a farmer with his 
uncle, afterward as builder. He mp^rried first Margaret Whitney, 
by whom he had eleven children. His second wife was Sarah 
Dennis by whom he had five children, viz. : George and Frederick, 
now of Michigan, James A., and Carrie, wife of John H. Bunzy 
■of Owego ; and one who died in infancy. When Mr. Grimes 
came to Owego there was but one building, and that a log tavern 
that stood on the northwest corner of Main street and North 
avenue. The children of John H., and Carrie (Grimes) Bunzy, 
are Adalbert and Minnie £. 

Capt. David Nutt came from Vermont to the town of Owego 
in 1816, and settled on Apalachin creek, where he cleared the 
farm now owned by Norman Billings. He built a saw-mill and 
engaged in lumbering and farming until 1844. He married 
Susan Bell, of Massachusetts, about 1817. There were six children 
born to them, viz.: Sally, wife of Elijah Sherwood, of Apalachin, 
Romanzo, now of Iowa, Fidelia wife of Don Carlos Farwell, of 
Portland, Oregon, Lorenzo, deceased, Maurice, of Alexandria, 
Dakota, and Mary J., wife of A. Lindsley Lane, of Apalachin, 
born May 2, 1832. Mr. Nutt died in 1877, aged eighty-one, 
and Mrs. Nutt in 1882, aged ninety-four. 

John Jewett, a soldier of the revolution, came from Putnam 
•county in the fall of 181 7, and located op the river road a mile 
■east of Apalachin. His son Asa married Bathsheba Wooden, by 
whom he had four children, viz.: Maurice, of Apalachin, Harryj 
•of Owego, Emily, now deceased, and Matilda, wife of Daniel 
Dodge, of Owego. Mr. Jewett died in 18 19. Mrs. Jewett after- 
ward married Benjamin F. Tracy, and had four children, namely, 
George, now deceased, Harrison and Harvey, of Apalachin, and 
Benjamin F., of Brooklyn. 

Josiah Morton came from Plymouth, Chenango county, to the 
town of Owego in 1818, and located on a farm on what was 
known as Chapman Hill. He married Lucinda Sholes, by 
whom he had seven children. His son Levi was eleven years 
old when his father came to Owego, and has since resided here. 
He was engaged in shoemaking in Owego for twenty-five years, 
and then moved to Apalachin, where he has since resided, about 
forty-three years. He married Margaret Freeland, by whom he 
had three children — Ellen, wife of George Tracy ; Emily, wife 
of Roswell Camp, of Wisconsin ; Elizabeth, wife of David LaMont, 
of Owego. Mr. Morton has been married twice since, and is 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 369 



now in his eightieth year. The present Mrs. Morton was Maria, 
widow of James T. Smith. 

James Lane, son of James, came from Delaware previous to^ 
1812, and enlisted in the war of that year. Upon his arrival in 
this county, he located at Weltonville. In 1817 he married Jane, 
■daughter of Rev. Charles Taylor, a Presbyterian mmister, who 
came from the North of Ireland about 1804. Their children were 
Samuel, a minister of the United Brethren denomination ; Nancyj 
who married John VanDemark ; Eliza (Mrs. Albert Barton); 
Charlotte (Mrs. Noah Goodrich); Charles; Catherine (Mrs. John- 
son Barton); and A. Lindsley, born April 6, 1831. The latter 
married Mary J., daughter of Captain David Nutt, January 31, 
1856, and by whom he has two children, Don CarloiJ boi-tl July 
31, 1858, and Edgar S., born June 6, 1864. Don Carlos married 
Frederica, daughter of Augustus Olmstead, in June, 1881, and 
has one child, Floyd L., born June 24, 1883. Charles Lane, son 
of James, Jr., married Mary, daughter of Samuel Brownell, by 
whom he had ten children, viz.: Egbert, Frank, Frederick, Libbie, 
Fannie (Mrs. Charles McNeil), Winnie, Eloise, wife of Herbert 
Johnson, of Barton, Alice (Mrs. D. G. Underwood), Annie and 
Lewis. 

John Livingston, son of Jacob Livingston, of Livingston 
Manor, Sullivan county, N. Y. , was born April 23, 1768. He came 
very early to Campville, where he settled. He married Magda- 
lena Palmetier, who was born November 14, 1777, and by whom 
he had thirteen children. Their second son, Peter, married 
Christiana Becker, by whom he had eleven children, viz.: Cathe- 
rine (Mrs. William Whittemore), Peter, John, Margaret, Hannah 
(Mrs. Piatt Jewett), Elizabeth, Chancelor, George, William, and 
Anna (Mrs, Fred Boynt). Margaret married Alonzo DeGroat, 
by whom she has three children, Charles, James, and Eva May. 
James married Maud Blewer, by whom he has one child, 
James, Jr. 

Thomas Baird, son of Daniel, was one of the pioneers of this 
county, he having come very early to the town of Candor, where 
he located about one mile from Speedsville. He married Sally 
Putnam, of Worcester, Mass., who bore him five children, viz.: 
John, Aaron, Martha, Thomas, Jr., Mary, and William. Mary 
was born in Candor, August 10, 1813, and married Luther T. 
Keith, September 27, 1836. They had three children, one who 
died in infancy, S. Elizabeth, who married E. M. Blodgett, May 
31, 1863, and whose second husband is W. Van Over, whom she 



370 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



married June 23, 1869 ; and George W., who married Anna Court, 
of Speedsville, N. Y., May 31, 1863. The latter have had four chil- 
dren, born as follows, viz.: Avery T., March 23, 1864, Mary E., 
May 7, 1865, Rose A., December 23, 1868, and Willie H., bom 
July 17, 1885, died March 17, 1886. Mr. Luther Keith died May 
18, 1884. 

Henry Wait came from Half Moon, Saratoga county, N. Y., 
about the year 181 8, and located near the southwestern part of 
the town, where he bad purchased about nine hundred acres of 
land. His sons, William and Henry, live on portions of the land 
purchased by him. He is represented as having been a liberal 
and benevolent man, who did much to improve the roads, and t& 
help the poor settlers who located about him. He married Eunice 
Shepard, by whom he had twelve children. Mrs. Wait died in 
1854, and Mr. Wait died in 1858. George A., son of Henry and 
Mary (Russell) Wait, married Anna, daughter of George O. and 
Sarah (McKee) Kile, September 30, 1878, and has one child, 
Floyd A., born December 21, 1882. 

William Williamson, son of Marcus and Mary (McLean) Will- 
iamson came from Westchester county and settled in Scipio, 
Cayuga county, N. Y. From thence he came to the town of 
Owego and settled three miles from Flemingville, and made the 
first settlement in that locality in 1820. At the time of his set- 
tlement there the country was a wilderness and his nearest neigh- 
bor was three miles distant. They often found it necessary when 
going out at night, to carry a pine torch, and also to build fires 
about their buildings to keep the wolves away. He married 
mary.R., daughter of William and Abigail (Park) Ferguson. 
Eight children were born to them and all arrived at maturity. 
They were, Abigail (Mrs. Hulburt Bates), Mary (Mrs. Reuben B, 
Locke) Loesa, William H., who was the second to enlist from the 
town of Owego, served in Co. H., 3d Regt. N. Y. Vols., under 
Captain Catlin, as corporal, was promoted surgeon and after- 
ward captain; while home on a furlough, which he spent in 
recruiting, he was taken sick and died, so never served as cap- 
tain — Augusta (Mrs. Isaac Smith), Anna, Hannah, second wife 
of Hulbert Bates, and Theodore. Mrs. Williamson died February 
16, 1880, and Mr. Williamson died February 22, the same year. 

Oliver Pearl came from Connecticut, about 1820, and located 
first about one mile west of Wait's church. His children were 
Hannah (Mrs. Philip Baker), and Mercy (Mrs. Loren Fuller), 
Daniel, Oliver, Walter and Cyril. Cyril married Rosanna, daugh- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 371 



ter of Thomas Farmer, May 29, 1820. Six of their children 
arrived at maturity, viz.: Walter, of Nichols, Loring C, of 
Owego, John F. and Austin, now deceased, Thomas F., of Hast- 
ings, Neb., and Jane R. Walter, married Catharine Rapplegee, 
by whom he had eight children, viz. : Mary M., who died in in- 
fancy, Cyril, Emma J., Marcella, George, My ram and Hattie, 
who died at the age of eighteen months. Loring C. married 
Clementina, daughter of Stephen Capwell in 1845, and has four 
children, viz. : Frances E., wife of Warren A. Lane, of Nichols, 
Helen R., wife of Emmet Barton, of Schoharie, N. Y., Charles C. 
.and Frederick J., of Owego. Austin married Diana B., daughter 
■of Ebenezer Warner, of Sanford, N. Y., and had one child, Freddie 
who died in 1854, aged four years. • 

Myram W. Pearl, son of Walter H. Pearl, married Emma, 
■daughter of George Merrick, December 5, 1878, and has two 
children, Ada, born April 13, 1880, and Marcella, born August 
16, 1883. 

Adam Gould came to this town from Washington, Duchess 
county, N. Y.,. February 28, 1822, locating south of the river and 
■engaged in farming, having bought 540 acres of wild land there. 
His wife was Judith, daughter of Paul Coffin, of Nantucket. 

William Sherwood came from Duchess county to Trumansburg 
early in the present century, and from thence to this county, 
where he located on the lower one hundred acres now comprised 
in the farm of John Holmes, about the year 1824. He married 
Polly Wicksom, by whom he had eight children who arrived at 
maturity, viz.: Elijah, John, Betsey, widow of Cornelius Goes- 
beck, William H., Nathaniel and Mary J., (twins) all of Owego, 
Hanna, wife of Alfred Van Wagoner of Duchess county, and 
Deborah. Elijah married Sally, daughter of Capt. David Nutt 
of Owego and had eight children, viz.: David W., of Belmont, 
N. Y., Ursula, wife of Dr. J. M. Barrett, and George J., of 
Owego, Henry W., a Baptist clergyman now of Syracuse, N. Y., 
John, who died in infancy, Susie, wife of Dr. Judson Beach, of 
Etna, N. Y., Edgar, who died at theage of six ypars, .and Deliah, 
wife of Dr. H, Champlin of Chelsea, Mich. Mr. Sherwood died 
in October, 1873. William H., married Olive, daughter of Will- 
fird Foster in 1855. Their children are Elsworth, Grace, and 
Charles. Elsworth married Flora Abbey and has one child, Roy. 
Nathaniel Sherwood married Phoebe, daughter of Van Ness 
Barrett of West Newark, in 1861, and they have had born to 
them three sons, Van Ness, Samuel and J. Ross. 



372 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



Matthew La Mont came from Schoharie county about 1825 and 
located on the farm now owned by Humphrey C. Slocum, where 
he controlled the La Mont ferry. He married Ruth McNeil, by 
whom he had twelve children. His eldest son, Marcus, married 
Hannah Hoagland by whom he had four children, namely : Abrant 
H., superintendent of the Orphan's Home at Binghamton,' Susan 
J., wife of Rev. William Life, preceptress of Rye Seminary.^ 
Cyrenus M., of this town, and Isabella, who died at the age of 
sixteen years. 

Ralph Hibbard, son of Ebenezer, was born in Norwich, Ct., 
and was a soldier at New London in the war of 1812-15. He 
married Jemima, daughter of Zebadiah Maynard of Norwich, 
and came to Owego in 1825. They had three children, namely: 
Ralph, A. Maria, and Charles, now of Granville, Mich. Ralph, 
married Elizabeth, daughter of John Sweet of Owego, by whom 
he had two children, Frances, and George R., a merchant of 
Owego. Frances married James E. Jones of Owego, November 
4, 1874, and has one child. Flora A., born December 29, 1879. -^- 

Maria is the widow of Curtis. Mrs. Jemima Hibbard is now 

in her ninety-first year. 

Ezra Tallmadge, the son of John, was born in the town of 
Malta, Saratoga county, N. Y., February 18, 1797. He was 
united in marriage with Zilpha Gould, in the year 1821. He re- 
mained in Malta until 1826, when, at the age of twenty-nine, with 
his wife and two children, he removed to this county. The jour- 
ney was made with an ox-team, and as the roads were bad and 
the weather unpleasant, they reached their destination under 
many difficulties. The land which he had purchased being 
covered with a dense forest, he first took quarters with his family 
in a log house on a lot located by Anson Camp, since known as 
the Camp farm, and about two and a half miles from his own 
place. He then cleared a spot, built him a log house, and cut 
through the woods a road of nearly two miles in length. About 
this time he lost a little son, whose death was the first one which oc- 
curred in the settlement for twenty-six years. At this period there 
were but three voters in that part of the county. He was a man 
of strong Christian character and for fifty years was in enjoyment 
of church membership. A Methodist society was formed near 
his home, and he was class-leader for many years. Mr. Tallmadge 
was eminently a good man, faithful in all the sacred relations of 
domestic life, and faithful as a father in Israel. He died on Sun- 
day evening, May 5, 1872, aged seventy-five years. Ezra W. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 375 



Tallmadge married Angeline, daughter of Henry and Mary 
(Russell) Waite, June 5, 1864, and by whom he has had five 
children, viz.: Ida M., wife of Lowell E. Kyle, Philip Albert, 
who died September 5, 1868, Mary P., Frutilla J., and Gurdon 
Ezra W., who died September 16, 1886, aged eleven years. 

James Blow came from East Winfield, N. Y. , in 1827, and 
cleared the farm now owned by his son Henry. He married 
Margaret Brown, who. like himself was a native of the North of 
Ireland. They had twelve children. Of these Henry married 
Catharine, daughter of John McNeil, by whom he had eleven 
children, James, Harmon, Minard, Arthur, Elizabeth, Henry, 
.Diana, Margaret, George, Almeda, and Frank L. The latter 
married Mary Franklin of Pennsylvania, and has two children,, 
namely, Alice and Henry. Francis, son of James Blow, married 
Amanda, daughter of Sylvester Fox of Owego, January 15, 1841, 
by whom he had six children, viz.: Harriet, Hiram, Sarah, 
Francis, Jr., all of Titusville, Pa., Ella, and William, of Owego. 
William married Emma, daughter of Miner Russell. Mr. Blow 
died in March, 1885. 

Sylvester Fox came from Connecticut to Windown, Pa., and 
thence to Owego in 1826, and located on the farm now occupied 
in part by Spencer Bostwick. He married Olive Smith, and 
eight of their children arrived at maturity, namely, Pernine,. 
Allen, Amanda, widow of Francis Blow, Sylvester, Sarah, wife of 
Jacob Mericle, Ira, William, deceased, and Merinda, wife of 
Edward Briggs of Nichols. 

George W. HoUenback, for nearly fifty years a prominent 
business man of Owego, was born in Wyalusing, Pa., August 25, 
1806. He was the eldest son of John HoUenback of Martinsburg, 
Va., who left his birth-place and settled in Pennsylvania in 1795. 
He was for many years engaged in business and was on intimate 
terms with the old dme merchants of Philadelphia. A gentleman 
of the old school, he was distinguished for an ease of manner 
and a generous hospitality which attracted many friends. His 
son, George, first came to Owego in 18 16, for the purpose of at- 
tending schpol. On the fifth of December, 1828, he returned 
again to Qwego and entered the store of John HoUenback as 
clerk, where he remained until 1831, when he entered into busi- 
ness for himself, near Towanda, Pa. After his marriage with Miss 
Jane Gordon, a lady of Scotch-Irish parentage whose ancestors 
on the father's side were distinguished in Scottish history, he 
acceded to the earnest wish of his childless relative, and v^ith his 



374 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



-wife removed to Owego, in 1838, and again entered the store of 
John HoUenback, who was widely known as one of the most 
active and energetic business men of his day. In the fall of 1847 
Mr. HoUenback, with Jacob Hand, entered into a partnership 
with Mr. William H. Bell, who had also been a clerk for John 
HoUenback, under the firm-title of Wm. H. Bell & Co., which 
parnership continued twenty years. They conducted an exten- 
sive general mercantile business, and engaged largely in the 
manufacture and traffic in lumber. On January' 16, 1867, the 
firm, from which Mr. Hand had previously withdrawn, was 
•dissolved by mutual consent, and the property owned by them 
was divided. Mr. HoUenback retained the store and Mr. Bell 
took the saw-mill and lumber tract in the south part of the town 
■of Owego, and after the dissolution of the firm of William H. 
Bell & Co., Mr. HoUenback took two of his sons, George F. & 
John G., into partnership with him, and continued the general 
mercantile business until the fall of 1871, when they disposed of 
their stock and commenced a wholesale and retail crockery busin- 
•ess. This business they continued until October, 1873, when 
they sold their stock to D. C. Tuthill. Mr. HoUenback took a 
.great interest in pubHc affairs. He died at his home in Owego, 
December 30, 1878, aged seventy-two years. His wife, who had 
been an invalid, suffering from consumption for several years, 
survived him a little more than two years, passing peacefully 
.away on the morning of April 14, 1881. Of the four sons and 
three daughters born to them, the youngest daughter died 
■October 28, 1874. Two daughters remain at the homestead, 
which was bequeathed to them and their brother Charles E., 
Jby their father. 

WiUiam Henry HoUenback married Mary McLain, of Owe- 
go, in July, 1868, and by whom he has seven children. He 
resides on his farm, in the town of Owego. George Frederick, 
or " Fred," as he was famiUarly called, was born in Owego. He 
received his education here and at the Brookside school, pre- 
sided over by the Messrs. Judd, at Berkshire, and finally at a 
private school. In AprU, 1861. he enlisted in the 3d Regt., N. Y. 
Vols., and served two years under Gen. I. S. Catlin. In 1878, he 
married his cousin, Augusta, daughter of George Gordan, of 
Frenchtown, Pa., by whom he had one child, George Frederick. 
He died May 11, 1882. John Gordan early evinced a predilec- 
tion for a mercantile career. After finishing his studies he en- 
tered the store of W. H. Bell & Co., as clerk. He afterward 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 375 



spent some time in Rochester, N. Y. He returned and entered 
into business with his father and brother. After two or three 
3'ears, they disposed of the business, and he accompanied his 
brother to California, where he remained a year. On his return 
he entered into partnership with C. A. Link, in the clothing 
business. In October, 1875, he married Miss Lizzie Dean, of New 
York. They have one daughter, Florence, and reside at Los 
Angeles, Cal., where Mr. HoUenback conducts a real estate busi- 
ness. 

Charles Edward HoUenback was born in Owego, Feb. 3, 1849. 
He prepared for college at the Owego academy, under the 
tutorship of Prof. Prindle. He entered Union college at Sche- 
nectady, N. Y., in 1868, and was graduated therefijpm in the 
classical course in 1871, taking the first prize in oratory. In Sep- 
tember, 1871, he commenced the study of law, in the office of 
Hon. John J. Taylor, and was admitted to the bar in 1874, when 
he formed a partnership with C. D, Nixon, known as the firm of 
Nixon & HoUenback, which continued for a year. In 1876 and 
1877, he had charge of the law office of Hon. E. B. Gere, who 
was then member of assembly. He afterward opened an office 
on his own account, with a large and constantly increasing prac- 
tice. Mr. HoUenback, or " Dick," as he was called by his friends, 
was one of the most active of. Owego s young Democrats. He 
was chosen chairman of the Democratic county committee, in 
1881, and continued at the head of that committee until he was 
taken sick. He was the Democratic candidate for district attor- 
ney, in 1876 and 1882, and for supervisor of the town of Owego, 
in the latter year. He died November 9, 1884. 

James Kenyon, of English descent, was born in Pittsfield, Berk- 
shire county, Mass., November i, 1813. When twenty-two years 
of age he came to Owego, and engaged asa journeyman machinist 
to Henry Camp, in whose service he remained thirty-five years. 
He married Amanda, daughter of Chauncey Hill, of Tioga, 
June 30, 1839. Four children were born to them, namely: Albert 
J., born September 22, 1841, now chief engineer of the U. S. 
Navy, in which service he has been since the fall of 1861 ; Lesbia 
A., born June 2t, 1844, the wife of William Peck; Anna L., born 
August 8, 1850, the widow of Charles R. Strang ; and Calvin F., 
born March 5, 1854, and who died September 8, 1875. Mrs. 
Strang has two children, namely: Samuel P., born March 6, 
1872, and Annette Kenyon, born June 7, 1874. 

Moses Knight was born February 10, 1808, in Crawford, Orange 

26* 



376 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



Co. N. Y. He married Mary J. Middaugh, of Sullivan Co., 
N. Y., November i, 1832. In 1835 he came to Owego and en- 
gaged in the clothing business, in which he continued until his- 
death, which occurred June 10, 1862. Their children were 
Thomas H., deceased, Elizabeth, Mary L,, deceasedjand William^ 
of Austin, Texas. 

Daniel Stanton, born December 14, 1794, came from Norwich^ 
Mass., and located in the town of Nichols in 1830, and in 1836 
moved onto the farm now occupied by his son Asa. He married 
Almira Johnson April 14, 1820, by whom he had eight children^ 
viz.: Maria, whO' died March 14, 1849, -^sa, born August 15,. 
1822, Elizabeth, widow of Oliver P. Chaffee, Lucinda, widow of 
Hiram Shays, of Owego, Clarissa, wife of A. J. Stanton, and Levi, 
of Bradford county, Pa., Jonas, who was drowned September 4,. 
1853, and Almira, wife of David Smead, of Owego. 

William S. Pearsall, son of Thomas, was born October 14, 1796, 
in Bainbridge, N. Y., where his father located very early, and 
with his brothers inherited large tracts of land which their father 
had owned. The latter was a native of Long Island. William,. 
Nathaniel, Gilbert and Thomas came to this town from Chenango- 
county, and settled in and near Apalachin, where they engaged 
in building mills and in lumbering, shipping large quantities in 
rafts down the river. In 1837, they had established a lumber 
business in the city of Baltimore, Md. In 1840, William built a 
grist and saw-mill at Apalachin, which was the only grist-mill in 
this section at that time, and which did the mill business of farm- 
ers for many miles. When they first came here there was but 
little of the village of Apalachin. Gilbert built and kept a store 
there. William purchased two hundred acres there, and the 
larger part of the village is on a portion of this tract. One hundred 
acres of it he afterward sold to Ransom Steele. William Pearsall 
married Eliza, daughter of Col. Samuel Balcom, of Oxford, N. Y.,. 
a sister of Judge Ransom Balcom and Judge Lyman Balcom, of 
Steuben county. Seven of the children that were born to them 
arrived at maturity — George,>of Fort Scott, Kas.; Jane, who died 
at the age of seventeen; Martha, wife of F. C. Coryell; Corneha, 
(Mrs. John King) ; Ransom S., of Apalachin; Col. Uri B., of 
Fort Scott, who entered the army as a private before he was 
twenty-one years of age, and upon the close of the war was bre- 
vetted Brigadier-General ; Mary, of Owego ; and Charles W., of 
Syracuse. Ransom S. married Adaline, daughter of Clinton and 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 377 



Ann Billings, and has four children, Grace L., William C„ Anna 
L. and Emily. 

Stephen Dexter, a civil engineer, was born in Cranston, R. I., 
May 16, 1792. He lived in Windham, Conn., but many years ago 
came by invitation to Ithaca, N. Y., to stajce out lots and make a 
map of the village. In 1838 he removed to Owego, where he 
spent the remainder of his life. He was engaged on the survey 
for the Erie railroad, and among other works laid out Evergreen 
Cemetery, Owego. Early in life he married Deborah Thurston, 
of Exeter, R. I. Mr. Dexter died July 5, 1876. 

Anthony D. Thompson, son of Henry, was born in Goshen, 
Orange county, N. Y., June 4, 1822, and came with his father's 
family when but three years of age, to the town of ®wego. His 
father conducted a farm and a hotel at Campville for twelve or 
fifteen years, and then removed to this village and engaged in 
blacksmithing. With the exception of two years spent in Towanda, 
Pa., Anthony D. has since made Owego his home. For six years 
he was engaged with his father in the shop, but failing health 
compelled him to abandon his trade and he entered the stage of- 
fice of the Owego Hotel, which stood on the site of the present 
Ah-wa-ga House. That position he resigned and removed to 
Towanda, and ran a line of stages for three years between 
Towanda and Waverly, and at the same time conducted a livery 
stable at each of those places. Selling his interests there, he 
engaged in the service of the Erie railroad in 1850, and has con- 
tinued with them until this time, covering a period of thirty- 
seven years. His first wife was Sabrina, daughter of Chauncey 
Hill, by whom he had five children, namely : Clarence A., of the. 
Owego National Bank, Charles S., deceased, A. Lizzie, wife of 
Walter Curtis, Sadie and Harry G. Mrs. Thompson died Janu- 
ary 14, 1873. 

Dr. Elias W. Seymour, son of William, who was a cousin of 
the late Governor Seymour, was born in Windsor, N. Y., Feb- 
ruary 7, 1823. When he was eight years old his parents removed 
to Binghamton, his father having been elected a representative 
in congress from that district. He was subsequently appointed 
judge of Broome county, which office he filled for several years 
with ability, and which he held at the time of his death, in 1849. 
The Doctor came to Owego when eighteen years of age. In 1850, 
he married Louisa L., daughter of John Dodd. He commenced 
the study of medicine in 1866, attending lectures in Philadelphia, 
Pa., and in 1870, entered upon the practice of his profession.. 



378 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



In 1866, he was elected master of Friendship lodge, F. & A. M., 
and again in 1870, serving, both terms, with great satisfaction. 
He died June 26, 1881. 

Luman Wood, son of David Wood, came from Duchess 
county, in 1839, and located in Tompkins county, where he 
remained three years, when he came to this town where he 
resided until his death, in 1872. He married Catharine, daughter 
of Nathan BuUard, by whom he had seven children, George H., 
Enos v., a member of the New York city police force, Harriet 
(Mrs. Joseph Nichols), Franklin T., Nathan D., Emma, wife of 
Frank Bullard, and Edward B. 

Jacob Bunzy came from Knox, Albany county, N. Y., many 
years ago, and located in Broome county, and afterward removed 
to the town of Owego and located at Gaskill's Corners. He 
married Sophia, daughter of John O'Brian by whom he had eight 
children, viz : John, Mary (Mrs. John A. Kens), Charles, George, 
Emma (Mrs. Charles Card), Nelson, Alice (Mrs. William Crum) 
and Lill (Mrs. Job Williams). Charles, married Lizzie, daughter 
of Artemas Walters, and has two children, Susie and Archie. 

Samuel Hauver came from Lee, Mass., in 1848, and located 
near Smithboro where he engaged in farming. He married Lois 
Buttles of Lee, by whom he had six children, viz.: Margaret, 
Charles, of Elmira, E. Jane, Lucy, George, of Nichols, and Frank, 
of Owego. Mr. Hauver died October 30, 1874. Margaret mar- 
ried Robert Snell, by whom she has one son, Samuel B. Charles 
married Martha Smith and has five children. E. Jane married 
Nelson Codner, and has eight children. Lucy married Charles 
Prince of Orwell, Pa., and has one son. George married Clara, 
daughter of George Seager, January i, 1881, by whom he had one 
child, Delmer G., born June 30, 1884, who died August 22, 1884. 
Frank married Mary, daughter of James S. Maine, of Windham, 
Pa., arid has one child, F. Earl, born July 13, 1886. 

Jesse Thomas came from Chester, Mass., to the town of 
Nichols in 1824, and purchased the farm on which Horace Louns- 
berry now resides. In 1854 he disposed of that property and 
bought a farm near the large island on the south side of the river 
where R, A. Barnes now resides. He married Jemima, daughter 
■of Joseph Clark, of Windsor, Conn. His son, Charles C. Thomas, 
learned the printing business and worked at it until 1844, when 
ihe engaged in mercantile business in Westfield, Mass., where he 
continued nine years. He then returned to Owego and establised 
a book and newspaper business on the site now occupied by 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 379 



Coburn & Strait. He afterward engaged in the boot and shoe 
business with Isaac Hall. He married Sylvinea Wentz, of Bing- 
hamton, February 28, 1843, by whom he has two children, Charles 
F., now chief clerk of the R. G. Dunn Commercial Agency at 
Detroit, and Emma A. 

Levi Slater came from Connecticut to Delaware county, where 
he engaged in teaching. General Cantine, who owned a military 
tract in the northern part of this county and in Tompkins county, 
which was then a part of Tioga county, induced Mr. Slater, by 
the offer of a grant of land, to migrate to that section. Fron> 
him Slaterville takes its name. David, son of Levi, came to 
Owego village, some thirty years since, and engaged in teaching, 
and in surveying. For twelve years he was street dbmmissioner 
of the village of Owego. He married Phoebe, daughter of Lewis 
Howes, of Putnam county. Four children were born to them, 
namely, Frank B., Sarah A., who married LeRoy A. James, and 
who died in 1870, Dorus M., now of Elmira, and Miles O., now 
of New York city. David Slater died in his eighty-second year. 
Frank B. married Gertrude Connor, of New York city, May 30, 
1871. 
■i- J. B. G. Babcock came from Pennsylvania to Owego, and 
during the years of the war was prominent in business here, 
being engaged in the wool business with D. M. Pitcher. He 
married Lovisa Douglass, by whom he had seven children, viz.: 
Annie, Lottie, Emily, Mattie, Joseph, Zachary T., and John B. G. 
The latter married Emma J., daughter of J. Parker Vose, by 
whom he has one child, Geofgiana. 

.y Charles M. Haywood was born at Ludlow, Vt., August 16, 
1833, and passed fiis early life on a farm. At the age of sixteen, 
he began the trade of marble and granite finishing. In 1856, at 
Littleton, N. H., he first embarked in business for himself, and 
in i860 he came to Owego, where he has since resided. Mr. 
Haywood's business success encouraged him to build, in 1875, 
upon the east side of North avenue, one of the best brick blocks 
in the village, where he is extensively engaged in the marble and 
granite business, having also a branch business at Waverly. His 
residence, on the corner of Temple and Liberty streets, is attrac- 
tive and imposing. While Mr. Haywood has never been a poli^ 
tician, in the common acceptation of the term, he has long 
ppssessed much local influence in the Republican party, and has 
often been called to positions of trust and responsibility, the dis- 
charge of the varied duties of which has invariably been charac- 



380 TOWN OF pWEGO. 



terized by ability, fidelity and integrity. It is characteristic of 
Mr. Haywood that he is never idle, and never in a hurry, but 
steadily pursues whatever work he may have in hand, — that he 
is upright, honorable, unobtrusive, generous, public-spirited, self- 
sacrificing, and a most estimable and respected citizen. 

The following are some of the positions he is holding at the 
present time : supervisor of the village, and ex-officio chairman 
of the board of supervisor of the county ; treasurer of the State 
Grand Lodge of Knights of Honor, since 1875 > representative to 
the Supreme Lodge of Protection, for six years past ; treasurer 
of the Owego Mutual Benefit Association, since its organization ; 
treasurer of Tioga Lodge, No. 335, L O. O. F., for many years; 
treasurer and trustee of the First M. E. Church of Owego, and 
member since 1852 ; presiding officer of Owego Chapter, No. 
510, R. A. M., having taken all the degrees in masonry, including 
the 95th ; director of the Masonic Relief Association, of Elmira, for 
seventeen 3'ears ; and president of the Owego District Camp 
Meeting Association during the past fifteen years. The following 
are some of the positions Mr. Haywood has heretofore occupied : 
Supervisor of the town of Owego in the year. 1877 ; supervisor 
of Owego village in 1844-5 : village trustee of the Third ward in 
1871 ; president of Owego village in 1872, being re-elected for 
the three succeeding years without opposition; chief of the 
Owego fire department in 1876, and a delegate to the National 
Board, at Philadelphia ; a charter member of the Supreme Lodge, 
Knights of Honor, and a representative to that body in 1875-76, 
yy and 78, being now a Past Grand Director of this state ; and 
charter member of the State Grand Lodge, Knights and Ladies 
of Honor, and its grand protector in 1880-81. Being, in 1883, 
a leading spirit in building a steamboat, and fitting up 
Hiawatha Island, he was president of the Owego Steamboat 
Company during the first two years of its existence. He was 
one of the principal movers in causing to be erected, in 1885, the 
Tioga county insane asylum. Mr. Haywood married Hannah 
Kneeland, of Proctorsville, Vt., in 1854. 

James -N. Hill, son of Chauncey and Lucy (Sexton) Hill, was 
born in the town of Tioga, December 14, 1816. His early edu- 
cation was received in the public schools, and at an 'early age he 
was apprenticed to the carpenter and joiners trade. He married 
Harriet Emily, daughter of Edward S. and Lydia (Curry) Madan, 
April 4, 1839. Their children were Sarah E., Lydia L., Charles 
O., and Ida E. (Mrs. G. A. Morton). For many years Mr. Hill 




C. M. Haywood. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 381 



•was prominently engaged in business in Ovvego, as a manufacturer 
and as a contractor and builder. Mr. Hill died January 5, 1887. 
Sarah E. married A. H. Keeler, June 17, 1858, and has three chil- 
■dren, — James B., Minnie, and Julia A. Minnie married J. A. 
Mabee, and has one child, John A., born August 20, 1879. Lydia 
L. married Ernest de Valliere, in April, 1864, and has five chil- 
<iren, Lena, Nina, Herman, Louie, and Allie. Edward S. Madan, 
father of Mrs. Hill, and son of Thomas D. and Charity (Odell) 
Madan, or de Madan, as the name formerly was written, wfas born 
in Sing Sing, N. Y., in 1786. His father was a soldier of the 
re volutionary w ar, and a French Virginian by birth. Edward 
lived in New York cit}' during his early years, and there learned 
the cabinet-maker's trade. He married, September 20, 18 10, 
Lydia, daughter of Benjamin Curry, of Florida, Orange county, 
N. Y. Eight children were born to them, as follows : Anna 
Eliza, January 6, 1812 ; Sarah J., May 9, [814; Mary L., Febru- 
ary 27, i8i-6; Harriet E., September 2, 1819; Caroline A., Octo- 
ber 29, 1821 ; Andrew, April 15, 1824; Frances M., April 30, 
1827; and Benjamin C, April 24, 1829. Mr. Madan and four 
brothers served in the war of 1812 . In 1822 he removed to 
Newark Valley, where he" remained only two years, when he 
came to Owego, where he engaged as contractor and builder. 
He was a member of the order of Free Masons, for sixty-two 
years, and both he and Mrs. Madan were, for many years, mem- 
bers of the First Presbyterian church of Owego. In politics he 
was a Democrat of the Jacksonian school. His life, from^i824, 
was spent in Owego. He died October 11, 1868. Andrew Madan 
married first, Phoebe Sears, April 4, 1857. His present wife is 
Sarah Searls, whom he married January 16, 1877. 

Harry Jewett was born in Putnam county, N. Y., October 22, 
1813. He came to Tioga county in the winter of 1816-17, with 
his parents, who located at Apalachin. In 1858, Mr.- Jewett came 
to Owego village. In 1864 he began the grocery business on 
Front street, continuing the same till 1876. In i860, he was 
elected justice of the peace, resigned in 1865, was again elected 
in 1876, and held the office- till 1883. In 1884, he was appointed 
assessor, and held the office till 1887. Mr. Jewett married Lo- 
raine Goodsell, September 11, 1837, who died November 18, 
1865. He again married, Esther Finley, June 17, 1867. He has 
three children, Emily (Mrs. T. E. Royall), Henry L., of Brook- 
lyn, and Frederick 6., of Cambridge, Ohio. 
\ Laban M. Jenks was born at Jenksville, in Berkshire, Febru- 



382 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



ary 28, 1810, where he resided all his life, dying August 28, 1865. 
He married, November 17, 1836, Eliza J. Armstrong. Their 
children were Mary E., born January 26, 1837 ; Byron J., Sep- 
tember 215, 1842; Robert B., a physician of Elmira, born March 
17, 1845, and William W., a lawyer of New York city, born Oc- 
tober 22, 1850. 

Caleb J. Chaffee was born in Providence, R. I., February 11, 
1 8 14. In 1832, he removed with his parents to Warren, Pa., and 
in the spring of 1835, he came to Owego and engaged in the lum- 
ber business, and has resided here since. Mr. Chaffee married 
Angeline N. Bowen, who has borne hint four children, only one 
of whom, Elizabeth (Mrs. George H. Pratt), of Cincinnati, Ohio, 
is living. 

Benjamin W. Brownell, who resides near Flemingville, has 
lived upon the farm he now occupies since 1826. He was born 
at Foster, R. I., September 21, 1813, and came here with his father, 
Gideon, in 1826. Gideon purchased what is known as the Fur- 
guson farm, named from William Furguson,the first settler thereon. 
Mr. Furguson sold to John Parmenter, he to John Lincoln, and 
he in turn to Mr. Brownell. The latter died in 1828. Benja- 
min rriarried Sarah C. Tucker, of Vestal, N. Y., who bore him 
ten children, and died in 1885. The children now living are, John 
C, Sarah C, Julia (Mrs. Elliot Barrett), Charles, George and 
Emma (Mrs. Luther Harris). 

Edmund Wood, from Middleboro, Mass., came to Owego in 
1817, locating upon the farm now occupied by his son Royal P. 
Mr. Wood married Laura A. Dean, February 14, 1833, whO' 
bore him three children. Royal P., born April 6, 1834; Eliza D.,. 
born March 27, 1836, and Tillson, born June 23, 1838. Mr. 
Wood died May 28,1877. Of the children, Royal P. and Eliza (Mrs. 
E. D. Brink) are now living. Royal, who occupies the homestead, 
married Sarah E. Keeler, December 2, 1858, and has four chil- 
dren. 

Elizur Talcott was a direct descendant of John Talcott, who 
came from England in 1632 and settled in Newton, Mass. He 
came to Owego, with his family in 1802. He married Dorothy 
Lord and reared several children, among whom was Elizur, Jr. 
The latter was born February i, 1780, married a Miss Bliss and 
had born to him five children. Of these, Joel, born March 20,. 
1807, married Eunice Benton, September 5, 1830, and reared two- 
children, George B. and Charles, both of whom now reside-o» 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 385 



on road 40. The former married Margaret Mason, December 
25, 1868, and the latter Sarah Van Atta, January i, 1865. 

Edward P. Herrick was born February 24, i8o8, and has lived' 
in Tioga county all his life. He has been twice married, and has- 
four children, Perlee, of Newark, Charlotte M. (Mrs. George 
Lake), Jennie (Mrs. John C. Brownell), and Edward W., of Bing- 
hamton, N. Y., 

Simeon L. Barrett was born in Kent, N. Y., March 13, i8iOr 
and came to Tioga county in 1836, locating in Candor till 1875,. 
when he removed to Flemingville, where he now resides. Mr. 
Barrett married Margaret Hover, in 1845, and has ten children 
now living — Jemima (Mrs. Franklin Cqrtwright), Minerva (Mrs. 
John W. Taylor), Elliott, Vanness, Monroe, Eugene, !\delia(Mrs.- 
Charles E. Wood), Edith (Mrs. Frederick Smith), Ida (Mrs. 
Edwin Rowe), and John F. 

Amzi Stedman was born in Connecticut in 1783, and came to- 
Tioga count}' with his sister's family, Mrs. Polly Pritchard, in> 
1790, and settled upon the farm now owned by Asa Pritchard.^ 
He married Anna Canfield, who bore him thirteen children, three 
of whom,— Amos C, Rachel (Mrs. Rachel Cogswell), and Lyman 
T., are living. The latter still occupies the old homestead farm. 
He married Polly Joslyn, September 15, 1846, and has one child^ 
Wheeler, who is in business at Flemingville. 

Isaac Whittemore, the first settler in the Whittemore Hill 
neighborhood, was born in Vermont, in 1798, and located on the 
old homestead about 1830. He married Jane Ditmorse, and reared 
twelve children, of whom seven are now living, viz.: Mary Ai- 
(Mrs. Daniel Cornell), Isaac V., Alvin, Virgil, Alonzo W., Egbert,, 
and Harriet (Mrs. Fred Rounds). 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

OwEGO Village. — In his centennial history, entitled, '' Tiogai 
County from 1784 to 1776,'' William F. Warner, describes the sit- 
uation of Owego village as follows: 

"It is 'situated at the confluence of Owego creek and the Sus- 
qtiehanna river. The corporate limits of the village are, on their 
south, and west lines, about one and a half miles in extent; the 
north and east lines are of less extent. To the north of the vil- 
lage, and about half a mile from the river, there is a bold ' head- 
land ' that rises to the height of four or five hundred feet, jutting' 
into the valley, its slopes facing the south and west, upon the- 
latter of which is situated Evergreen Cemetery. This headland! 



384 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



forms the northern and northeastern boundaries of the villag'e. 
The river, flowing^ from the east, makes a beautiful curve at the 
eastern border of the village. By a road along the south face of 
the headland, as well as by the road to the cemetery, easy access 
is had to the top ; and standing upon this bold elevation, there is 
to be had a view extending for miles up and down fhe river, and 
over the valley extending northward, of remarkable beauty and 
■diversity." 

Early Settlers of the Village. — In 1791, there were but six fam- 
ilies residing on the, site of the present village of Owego. Seven 
years later, by an assessment made by Guy Maxwell, of New 
Town (Elmira), dated October i, 1798, it is shown that there 
were at that time, nineteen houses in the village, most of which 
were built of logs. Land was then worth only from three to 
eight dollars per acre. 

Many of the early settlers were revolutionary soldiers. One 
of them was Emmanuel Deuel, who settled in the riorthern part 
of the village, in 1790. The same year Captain Lemuel Brown 
•came from Berkshire county, Mass., and erected the first tannery 
in the village. Mason Webster settled here, in 1791. He came 
from Lenox, Mass. He died December 26, 1854. Dr. Samuel 
Tinkham, the first practicing physician, came in 1792, and Capt. 
Mason Wattles, the first merchant, the same year. Dr. Elisha Ely 
■came, in 1798, and Stephen Mack, in 1799. Ephraim Wood also 
-came in the latter year, from Rutland, Vt. He died February 
8, 1855. 

Elizur Talcott, and his sons, George L. , and Elizur Talcott, Jr., 
removed, in 1802, from Glastonbury, Conn., to Elmira, where 
they were employed in building a dwelling house. The next year 
they came to Owego and settled in the northwestern part of the 
village. The former died November 28, 1831 ; the second, No- 
vember 30, 1873, aged ninety years, and the latter, January 28, 
1867. 

Prominent among the early settlers was Captain Luke Bates. 
He was the first white settler between Union and Campville. At 
an early day he purchased of James McMaster, various tracts of 
land in the town of Owego, and became owner of much of the 
land on which the village was subsequently built. In 1795 he 
built the first tavern in Owego village. It occupied a portion of 
the ground where the Ah-wa-ga House now stands, and was de- 
stroyed by fire in 1829. Captain Bates was an old sea captain. 
He dieci in 18 13, near the Little Nanticoke creek, where he con- 
■ducted-a distillery. 






f ■ 




^^^A^^ ^UO 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 38 



Owego as an Early Business Point. — Owego was the earliest set 
tlement in this part of the state of New York, and, owing to its 
situation, became an important business point. The early settlers 
engaged in lumbering and shipping their product down the Sus- 
quehanna river in rafts, to a market. In 1808, the Owego and 
Ithaca turnpike was opened to travel. Then Owego became the 
outlet to a large section of the country. All the flour, grain, salt, 
plaster, etc., for the southern and eastern market, was brought 
■down Cayuga lake by»boat to Ithaca, and then to Owego by teams. 
The traffic was so great that from five hundred to eight hundred 
loaded wagons usually passed over the turnpike in a single day. 
From here it was sent in arks down the river. The cost of trans- 
porting a barrel of salt or flour from Ithaca to Baltimore, was 
one dollar and seventy-five cents. An ark cost seventy-five dol- 
lars, and would carry two hundred and fifty barrels. The trip 
irom Owego to Baltimore occupied from eight to twelve days. 
At Baltimore the lumber in an ark would sell for about forty 
dollars. 

The transportation business was so great that, in the summer 
of 1825, three steamboats were built, as an experiment. The 
Cadorus was built at Lock Haven, Pa., and was run up to Owego 
the next year. After an absence of four months, the captain 
returned and reported that the navigation of the river was 
■entirely impracticable. The second boat, the Susquehanna, ^nt^s 
built at Baltimore. She was destroyed by the explosion of her 
boiler at Nescopeck Falls, while ascending the river, May 5, 1826, 
and several of her passengers were killed. The third boat, the 
Pioneer, was run as an experiment on the West Branch of the 
Susquehanna river, and proved a failure. In 1835, another boat 
called the Susquehanna, was built in Owego, by Wilkesbarre and 
Owego capitalists. This boat made several trips up and down 
the river, but proved useless for the purpose intended. 

The business of transporting merchandise from Ithaca to 
Owego attained such great proportions that, in 1S28, a number 
of capitalists, residing in Ithaca and Owego, chief among whom 
was James Pumpelly, obtained a charter from the legislature to 
build a railroad between the two villages. This was the second 
railroad chartered in the state of New York, and it was opened 
to the public in April, 1834. It entered the village at the north 
and extended down through the village park, and up Front 
street. The cars were run by a switch under the stores on the 



386 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



river's bank, where their contents were readily unloaded into 
arks. 

In the fall of 1849, the New York and Erie railroad was com- 
pleted to Owego, and all traffic by river, with the exception of 
lumber, potatoes, etc., ceased. 

In the morning of September 27, 1849^ ^ ^^^ destroyed all ex- 
cept three of the stores on Front and Lake streets. One hun- 
dred and four buildings, exclusive of barns, were burned, entail- 
ing a loss of about $300,000. Nearly all tj>e buildings were of 
wood. This great calamity checked, but did not permanently 
impair the prosperity of the village. The business men, without 
delay, caused the erection of the present substantial brick blocks 
in the place, and progress was thereafter continuous. 

The centre of trade at the time of the early settlement of the 
village of Owego was that portion of Front -street, nearest to 
Church street. Where the Ahwaga House now stands, Capt. 
Luke Bates built a tavern (in a portion of which was a store) as- 
early as 179S- Eight years afterward, Charles Pumpelly bought 
the property. 

The first merchant in Owego was Mason Wattles, who came 
here in 1792. Bates and Wattles bought land of James McMaster^ 
and were owners of many of the lots which are now the most 
valuable in the village. The merchants doing business in Owega 
previous to 18 10 were Mason Wattles, Thomas Duane, William 
and Nathan Camp, Gen. John Laning, Maj. Horatio Ross, John 
Hollenback, Charles Pumpelly, Gen. Oliver Huntington, and Gen. 
Anson Camp. 

Owego to-day, has a population of about 6,000 people, and con- 
tains one agricultural works, three foundries and machine shops^ 
one piano manufactory, one boot and shoe manufactory, one har- 
ness manufactory, one brewery, one marble works, two bottling 
works, one coffin manufactory, two carriage manufactories, three 
planing mills, two flouring mills, one saw mill, two soap manufac- 
tories, seventeen groceries.eleven dry and fancy goods, and variety 
stores, five millinery stores, four clothing stores, three hat stores, 
five boot and shoe stores, five drug stores, two furniture stores, 
three fruit stores, three book and news stores, three bakeries, four 
hardware stores, three livery stables, two laundries, four cigar man- 
ufactories, three coal yards, ten hotels, thirteen saloons, five liquor 
stores, thirteen physicians, five dentists, eighteen lawyers, six 
churches, four insurance" offices, five barber shops, three banks, 
four newspapers, four job printing offices, three jewelry stores, 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 387 



four telegraph offices, one telephone office, three photograph 
galleries, three railroad depots, two express offices, four meat 
markets, one tea store, one milk depot, one sewing machine store, 
two musical instrument stores, three harness shops, one fishing- 
tacle store, one cooper's shop, one silver spoon manufactory, two 
public halls, and various tailor, blacksmith and other shops. 

Village Improvements. — Soon after the coming of the first white 
people, the settlement was regularly surveyed and laid out as a 
-village. The survey was made by Amaziah Hutchinson, in 1788 
.and 1789, and completed by David Pixley, Jr., in 1789 and 1790. 
The village territory comprised all of lot No. 23 in the original 
survey of McMaster's Half Township, and was known as the 
" Town Plot." It was bounded on the south by the Susquehan- 
Tia river. The western boundary line ran from a point on the 
river bank near where Mr. Lovejoy's residence stands on Front 
■street, north, diagonally across the village park, to near the corner 
■of Church and Temple streets, continuing thence in a straight 
line past the corner of Fox street and Spencer avenue to a point 
about where the gate to Evergreen Cemetery now is. The north 
line ran from the latter point to Main street, a little west of the 
N. Y., L. E. & W. railroad. The east line extended from the latter 
point south past the corner of Ross and Front streets to the river. 

The first highway through Owego was regularly laid out 
November 7, 1791, by Amos Draper, William Bates, and William 
Whitney, the first commissioners of highways of the town of 
Union. It commenced at the fording place in the Owego creek, 
-near where Main street now crosses the creek and extended east 
■on the present course of the street to the Kiuga (Cayugaj road, 
now McMaster street, and down to Front street^ then known as 
the " Main river road." Thence the highway followed the pres- 
ent coarse of Front street east out of and beyond the present lim- 
its of the village. At the same time the Cayuga road was regu- 
larly laid out as a public highway, extending from "Robert 
McMaster's landing " at the foot of the street now known as 
Academy street, to near John Nealey's home on the Owego creek. 

On Hutchinson's map there were two streets running east and 
west which were identical with the present Main and Front 
streets, but much narrower than at present. There was a road 
where Lake street now is and it extended in a direct line from the 
river'out of the village. A lane extended from the river north along 
the west line of the old Avery property north to where Temple 
street now runs. Another lane extended north from, the river 



388 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



where Paige street now is, to Temple street. Another lane was 
extended from Main street north, along the line of W. L. Hoskins's 
residence to a point about where East Temple street now runs. 
These were all the streets in the village at that time. 

Village Incorporation. — The village of Owego was incorporated 
by an act of the legislature, dated April 4, 1827. The popula- 
tion of the town of Owego, at that time was about 3,000 and of 
the village 750. The first election was held in June, 1827, at the 
court-house. The first trustees elected were James Pumpelly, 
Eleazer Dana, Harmon Pumpelly, William A. Ely, and Jonathan 
Piatt, Jr. The board organized by choosing Mr. Pumpelly 
president of the village, and Ezra S. Sweet, clerk. In 1854, an 
amendment to tne charter provided for the division of the village 
into five wards, and the election of the president by the people 
direct. William F. Warner was the first president elected under 
the amendment, in T855. 

The charter of 1827 provided that the village limits should 
confine all that part of the town of Owego then included within 
the jail limits of the eastern jury district, or as such jail limits 
should be established at the Court of Common Pleas at its next 
session, in the following May, and should contain not to exceed 
three hundred acres of land. The territory under this charter 
comprised all the land bounded south by the river, north by 
Temple street, west b}' William street, and east by Ross street. 
The village boundaries were again enlarged by act of the Legis- 
lature, April 9, 185 1, and were subsequently enlarged by acts 
dated April 15, 1854, April 15, 1857, and Aprils, 1872. 

Village Park. — On the 28th of February, 1797, James McMaster 
sold to the people of the settlement of Owego, for the sum of ten 
ppunds sterling, a little more than three acres of land for a village 
park. The piece comprised all the ground now occupied by the 
village park and Court street, and the land on which the county 
jail, the old county clerk's office, and the old academy building 
stand. To hold this land, McMaster, in the deed conveying it, 
named Capt. Mason Wattles, John McQuigg, and Capt. Luke 
Bates as "Trustees of Owego Settlement." On the 4th of Sep- 
tember, 1813, Eleazer Dana and John H. Avery, were chosen to 
succeed Bates and McQuigg, who had died a short time previous. 
Gen. Anson Camp was chosen to succeed Captain Wattles upon 
the latter's removal from Owego soon afterward, and Messrs. 
Dana, Avery, and Camp continued to act as trustees until the 
incorporation of the village, in 1827. That portion of the park 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 389 



occupied by the. jail and old clerk's office was sold by the trus- 
tees to the supervisors of Tioga county, October 29, 1822. The 
old academy lot was Stild to the trustees of the Owego academy,. 
April 8, 1828. 

First Village School.— 'Y\\& first school in Owego was taught by 
a man named Quincy. And 1 here make correction of a blunder^ 
founded in misinformation and made permanent through the 
gross stupidity of a superanuated and incompetent manufacturer 
of catch penny history. 

French's "Gazetteer of the State of New York" is remarkable 
particularly for its many blunders. Among others, in a footnote 
on page 652 (edition of i860), it say.s that "the first school was 
taught b}' Kelly, in 1792." ^ 

In 1872, one Hamilton Child published a "Gazetteer and Busi- 
ness Directory of Broome and Tioga Counties," in which the 
blunder of French's Gazetteer was reproduced, Mr. Child, as a 

matter of course, repeating the statement that " Kelly" was 

the first teacher. 

In 1879. what purports to be a "History of Tioga, Chemung,. 
Tompkins, and Schuyler Counties," was printed in Philadelphia.. 
In compiling this remarkable aggregation of blunders, a genial 
and fossiliferous old gentleman named Dr. Everhart, was sent here- 
to write the history of Owego. He soon accumulated a vast 
fund of , rich and varied misinformation. The writer of this 
sketch, in casual conversation, incidentally informed Dr. Ever- 
hart that Quincy was the first school teacher and that if he would 
go to Mrs John Carmichael (at that time the oldest living resident 
of the village, and the only survivor of Quincy's pupils), he could 
learn all the particulars he might desire. He did so. A few 
days afterward he came to the writer, in high glee, saying that 
in -looking over some papers in, the old Pumpelly land office he 
had come across the name, "JoHn Kelly," and that as there were 
-few settlers here at that early period he was sure that he had 
discovered the full name of the teacher. So, assuming that Mrs.. 
Carmichael was mistaken in regard to the teacher's name, the 
. statement that John Kelly was the first teacher went into the 
"History," and Mrs. Carmichael was quoted as authority. The; 
truth is, that John Kelly was not a school teacher, at all, but ,a 
farmer, who lived in the neighborhood of Campville, six miles 
distant from Owego. His name will be found among those 
ordered to do highway duty, in 1791. 

Quincy taught school in the small log house, which stood oa 



_390 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



the east side of Court street, where the old Academy building 
now stands. He had a scar on his face, which disfigured him 
badly. It was said that he had been disappointed in love, and had 
;shot himself in the mouth in an attempt to commit suicide, the 
ball breaking the jaw and causing his mouth to be twisted to one 
«ide. 

At a late period there was an old log school-house on the south 
.side of Main street, a little west of where St. Paul's Episcopal 
church now stands. This was torn down and a frame building 
erected in its place. The latter was two stories high, and the 
second floor was occupied as a lodge room by the Masonic fra- 
ternity. Isaac Lillie and Erastus Evans were at different peri- 
ods teachers of the school. The latter was the teacher when the 
building caught fire, one day, in the summer of 1835, while 
school was in session, and burned to the ground. 

The question of building an academy in Owego, was agitated- 
as earlv as 1817. Nine years later,- by act of the legislature, 
James Pumpelly, William Camp and John H. Avery were ap- 
pointed commissioners to sell the "gospel lot" and apply: the 
proceeds to such school purposes as should be directed by a vote 
of the inhabitants of the town. On the 19th of December, 1826, 
at a special town meetiug, it was unanimously voted to appropri- 
ate the )'early income of the interest arising from the sal6 of the 
■"gosppl lot'' to the endowment of an academy. On the 8th of 
April, 1828, the trustees of Owego Settlement, deeded the old 
academy lot, on Court street, to the trustees of the Owego Acad- 
emy. The academy was built in 1827, on a contract, by Col. 
Amos Martin, and Abner Beers had charge of its construction. 

James Pumpelly was president of the first board of trustees 
of the academy, which was composed of Rev. Aaron Putnam, 
Col. Amos Martin, Dr. Joel S. Paige, Latham A. Burrows, Ele- 
azer Dana, Gurdon Hewitt, Rev. Joseph Castle, Charles Pum- 
pelly, Jonathan Piatt, Anson Camp, and Stephen B. Leonard. 
Rev. Edward Fairchild was the first principal of the academy. 
Sixty male, and sixty-one female pupils attended the first term. 

The several school districts in the village were consolidated 
by act of the legislature, dated April 23, 1864, and the academy 
was'merged into the "Union Schools of the Village of Owego," 
as a free school, under control of a board of school commission- 
ers, elected by a vote of the people. 

The present academy, at the southwest corner of Main and 
Academy streets, was built in 1883, at a cost of $25,000. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. - 39I 



First Mills — The first saw-mill in Owego was built by James 
McMaster and Amos Draper some time previous to the year 
1791. It stood on the' east side of the Owego creek, a little 
above the present Main street bridge. ' The first flouring-mill 
was built by Col. David Pixley, in 1793. It stood on the west 
side of the Owego creek, in the town of Tioga, opposite the In- 
dian spring. Colonel Pixley was one of the earliest settlers of 
the present town of Tioga. He waS' one of the proprietors of 
the Boston Purchase, and came from Stoekbridge, Mass., in 1791, 
at the age of fifty-one years. He was a colonel in the Colonial 
army, and fought in the battle of Quebec; under General Mont- 
gomery. He was treasurer of Tioga county from 1798 to 1803. 
Some time previous to the year 1800, he removed to ®wego vil- 
lage. He owned a large tract of land on the west side of the 
Owego creek, which he sold to Eliakim and Judge Noah Good-; 
rich, Jr., in 1802. He died in Owego, August 25, 186,7. 

Of the present mills and manufactories of the village, that of 
Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., is the most extensive. This factory, 
known as the " Drill Works;' ' is conducted iu'the old Bristol Iron 
Works property, and the business is the continu-ation of that 
established by George W. Bristol and others, in. 1866. The pres- 
ent firm employs a large force of men in the manufacture of 
"Champion " farm wagons, grain and fertilizer ,drilIs,-harrows, 
etc. 

Dorwin, Rich & Stone, at Canawana, are extensively enga.ge,d 
in the manu.facture of flour. 

Shaw & Dean, whose mills are located on Central aveAue, are 
also extensive merchant millers. 

Sporer, Carlson & Berry, on North avenue, are well-known 
manufacturers of pianos, and dealers in musical merchandise. 
This business was started in May, i8S7, by E. Hosford, dealer in 
pianos. In the fall of 1861, a firm was organized, consisting; of H. 
Norton, F. Sporer, and O. M. Carlson. They subsequently asso- 
ciated with them Mr. J. Berry, and again- the firm became as it 
exists at present. In 1867, they were burned out, but started again 
in .1868. ' • 

Moore & Ross, extensively engaged in the manufacture of car- 
riages, wagons, and sleighs, began business here April i, 1859. 

The Owego Cruciform Casket Company conducts a large busi- 
ness in the manufacture of burial caskets. 

Arba Campbell, extensively engaged in tanning sheep skins, 
built his tannery 'here, in 1871, and' began business under the firm 

26* 



392 ■ TOWN OF OWEGO. 



name of A. Campbell & Co., January i, 1872. The tannery has 
twenty-four vats, and the capacity for turning out five hundred 
sheep skins per day, and employs about eighteen hands. 

H. N. Dean & Son's tannery had its beginning in a small way,, 
many years ago, when Elihu Parmenter built a small tannery in 
connection with his shoeshop, on the opposite side of the street 
from the piesent site. He increased its capacity from time to- 
time, and moved the tannery to the site now occupied. In i860' 
he disposed of the property to Alanson P. Dean, of Berkshire 
county, Mass., who in turn increased the capacity. His brother, 
H. Nelson Dean, became interested with him, and finally, with his- 
son, Ransom B., bought the whole property. H. Nelson died in 
August, 1872, and the whole property reverted to Ransom B. and 
his brother, Isaac N. The latter soon after disposed of his interest 
to Ransom, who still owns the tannery, retaining the firm title of 
H. N. Dean & Son. The tannery has sixty double vats, ten 
liquor vats, seven lime vats, five "soaks," three " baits," and two- 
" pools," making in all, eighty-seven vats ; gives employment to 
twenty-five men, and turns out about 25,000 sides per year, prin- 
cipally of card and russet leather, using about a thousand cords 
of bark. Albert H. Upton is superintendent. 

L. & G. Brown's apiarist's supply manufactory, located off 
North avenue, was established by them in 1881, where they man- 
ufacture hives, boxes, foundations, &c. The factory is run by 
a six horse-power engine. 

Alexander J. Thomas's green-houses, on Main street, were 
erected by him in 1885. He has several hundred square feet 
under glass, and does a large business in cut flowers and plants. 

Banks. — The First National Bank of Tioga, located on Front, 
street, was organized January 6, 1865, to supercede the old Bank 
of Owego, a state institution, organized with $200,000.00 capital. 
The First National Bank's capital is $100,000.00. The charter 
was renewed in 1885, for twenty years. The first officers were 
Lyman Truman, president ; John B. Brush, cashier. The pres- 
ent officers are George Truman, president; Arba Campbell,, 
vice-president ; William S. Truman, cashier ; Francis E. Brock- 
way, teller. 

The Tioga National Bank, located on Front street, was organ- 
ized in January, and began business April i, 1865, with a capital of 
$100,000.00. In January, 1865, the charter was renewed for 
twenty years. The first officers were T. C. Piatt, president p 
W. S. Lincoln, vice-president ; F. E. Piatt, cashier. The present 





'^^M^mX' 



TOWN- OF OWEGO. 393 



officers are T. C. Piatt, president ; L. B. West, vice-president ; 
F. E. Piatt, cashier ; E. W. Stone, assistant-cashier. 

The Owego National Bank, located on Lake street, was organ- 
ized May 10, 1883, with a cash capital of $50,000.00. On May 
29th the first meeting of stock-holders was held, when the follow- 
ing officers were elected, G. B. Goodrich, president ; C. E. 
Parker, vice-president; A. J. Kenyon, 2d vice-president; 
Clarence A. Thompson, cashier. On August 6th the bank was 
opened for business. The present officers are Charles E. Parker, 
president ; R. B. Dean and A. J. Kenyon, vice-presidents ; C, A. 
Thompson, cashier ; and James A. Bassett, teller. The capital 
has not been changed since organization, and the bank has a sur- 
plus fund of $7,000.00. * 

Physicians. — Dr. John Frank was born in Virgil, Cortland 
county, N. Y., September 3, 1797. He received his early edu- 
cation there, studied medicine, and for nine years was a practi- 
tioner in that place. He received diplomas from the Eclectic 
Medical Colleges of Albany and Syracuse. He came to Owego 
in 1837, where he has been in active practice ever since. He 
married Sally, daughter of Jacob Price, of Virgil, by whom he 
had two daughters, viz.: Catherine and Diantha, both deceased. 
Catherine married Albert Thomas, by whom she had one child, 
Kate, wife of Joseph B. Ball, of Cleveland, O. Diantha married 
Isaac Hall, and had one child, Emma, wife of S. B. Wellington, 
of New York city. Although in his ninetieth year, the Doctor 
still has a large and successful practice. 

Dr. John T. Greenleaf was born in Owego, January 26, 1847, 
and received his education in the schools of this place. He grad- 
uated from the New York Homeopathic Medical College in 1867. 
After six months spent in Candor, he removed to Owego, where 
he has since continued to practice. He has been three times 
married, his present wife being Hattie, daughter of P. W. 
Meeker, of this village. 

Dr. Warren L. Ayer was born at Little Meadows, Pa., June 6, 
1843, a son of Isaac and Mary A. (Thurber) Ayer. He studied 
in the district schools, and when ten years of age his parents 
moved to Apalachin, and he there studied in the private school 
taught by John E. Barnaby, and subsequently by A. N. Alvor-d, 
preparing for college, expecting to enter during the autumn of 
1862 ; but instead he enlisted in Co. H, i09thsN. Y. Vols., remain- 
ing in this regiment till July, 1864, when he was commissioned 
captain of Co. G, 127th U. S. C. Vols., and v^as finally mustered 



394 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



out in December, 1865. Immediately on his return, the Doctor 
began the study of medicine with Dr. E. Daniels, of Owego, and 
graduated from the Long Island College Hospital, in June, 1868, 
served a year in the Hartford City Hospital, became assistant 
to Dr. John G. Orton, of Binghamton, for three years, and in 
June, 1872, began practice in Owego, where he has since resided. 
Doctor Ayer married Sarah A. D wight, of Binghamton, De- 
cember 21, 1871, and has three children, daughters. 

Dr. Merritt T. Dutcher was born in Somerset, Niagara county, 
N. Y., December 17, 1843. He was educated in the graded 
schools of his native village, and on September 6, 1862, enlisted 
in Co. K, 151st Regt., N. Y. Vols., Infantry. He served until 
June I, 1865, when he was mustered out. November 12, 1873, he 
married Mary Stoutenburg, of Duchess county, N. Y. The 
Doctor is a graduate of the New York Homeopathic Medical 
College. 

Dr. C. R. Heaton is a native of Newark Valley, born in 1842. 
He graduated at Geneva Medical College, in 1864, and began 
practice at Newark Valley, and soon mbved to Maine. He after- 
ward returned to Newark Valley, and in 1876 permanently 
located in Owego. Doctor Heaton belongs to Friendship Lodge, 
No. 153, and is Past Master of Newark Valley Lodge, No 614, 
Past High Priest of New Jerusalem Chapter, No. 47. He has 
been a member of Malta Commandary, of Binghamton, for 
twenty-one years. Dr. Heaton is known as one deeply interested 
in the advancement of the place. He is treasurer of the Cruci- 
form Casket Company, and director in the Owego National bank. 
He holds the position of medical director in the Owego Mutual 
Benefit Association, and that of director of the Mutual Relief 
Society of Rochester. He is a member of the County and State 
Medical Societies, and his professional and business duties make 
his life a very active one. 

Dr. Charles L. Stiles was born in Suss.ex county, N. J., Oc- 
tober 24, 1837; studied medicine with Dr. S. M. Hand, now of 
Norwich, N. Y., and graduated at the Geneva Medical College, 
in February, 1S65, began practice at Gibson, Pa.; came to Owego 
in Ma)s 1868, and has been in practice here since. Dr. Stiles 
married Marietta Archibald, May 18, 1864, and has three chil- 
dren, a son and two daughters. 

Dr. A. F. Crans was born in Dwaar's Kill, Ulster county, N. 
Y., July 24, 1841. He received his education at the Middletown 
Academy, in Orange county, N. Y., and when fifteen years of 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 395 



age he removed with his parents to Candor, and subsequently to 
Owego. He studied medicine with Drs. Armstrong and Daniels, 
of Owego, attended the University of Michigan, at Ann -Arbor, 
and subsequently the Eclectic College, of New York city, from 
which institution he graduated. He practiced for a short time 
in Halsey Valley, and at Carbondale, Pa., for seven years. From 
there he removed to New York, where he remained in practice 
six years, and in March, 1877, came to Owego, where he has since 
resided. He married Martha Embodee, by whom- he has one 
child, Mattie. 

Dr. Andrew T. Pearsall was born in Florence, Lauderdale 
county, Ala., April 22, 1839. When he was four years of age hi& 
father returned to Tioga county, which had previously been the 
home of the family, and the doctor received his education here^ 
and at Hobert College, Geneva, N. Y. He entered the College 
of Physicians and Surgeons in New York city, from which in- 
stitution he graduated in 1861. He was brigade surgeon in the 
Confederate service three years during the war ; after which he 
settled in Montgomery, Ala., where he practiced medicine until 
1876, when he returned to Owego, where he has since continued 
in practice. 

Dr. James M. Barrett was born September i, 1841, in Duchess 
county, N. Y. With his parents he moved to Tioga county, 
when nine years old. His mother died when he was twelve 
years old, at which time he left home to find one for himself. May 
21, 1861, he enlisted in Company K., 26th N. Y. Vols., and 
served in the army of Virginia until his discharge, in December, 
1862, on account of wounds received at the second battle of Bull 
Run, on August 30, 1862. He attended the Owego Academy for 
the four years following his discharge, then taught school until. 
1871, when he entered the medical department of the University 
of Michigan, from which he graduated, in the class of 1874. He 
practiced medicine, in Pennsylvania, for the first eight years after 
his graduation. In the fall of 1881 he moved to Owego, where 
he now resides. He held the office of U. S. Examining Surgeon 
for pensions, under President Arthur. He is now serving 
his second term as coroner of the county, and is secretary of the 
Tioga County Medical Society. 

Dr. George B. Lewis was born at Apalachin, December 9, 1865, 
a son of Dr. Isaac W. and Ellen (Sutton) Lewis. He studied in 
the high school of his native village and at the Owego Academy, 
beginning the study of his profession with his father, and after- 



396 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



ward attending lectures at the Universit}' of Vermont, graduat- 
ing at the medical department of the University of the City of 
New York, in 1884, after which he was in Bellevue Hospital about 
a year and a half, and immediately began practice in Owego, 
where he has since been located. 

Flemingville is situated at the junction of the east and west 
branches of the Owego creek, five miles north of Owego, and 
derives its name from one of the early settlers. Captain David 
Fleming, who was also the first postmaster. Captain Fleming 
came from Newton, Sussex county, N. J., to the town of Nichols^ 
in this county, in 1806, removing thence, two years afterward, to 
Flemingville. He served in the war of 18 1 2 as captain in the 
third company of the third regiment, heavy artillery, and fought 
in the battles of Sackett's Harbor, Lake George, Erie, etc. He 
died at Flemingville, February 4, 1862, aged eighty-two years. 

His son, General Robert L. Fleming, was seven years of age 
when the family settled at Flemingville. At the age of twelve 
he accompanied his father with the Federal army, as his waiter, 
and was a witness of the battles in which his father was engaged. 
After the war he organized a company of state militia, of which 
he was chosen captain. About the year 1S35, he was elected, by 
a vote of the field officers, a brigadier-general, in command of 
the Ninth Brigade of New York State Artillery. In the war of 
the rebellion he assisted Colonel Kane in organizing his "Buck- 
tail regiment," in Elk county, Pa. He was elected sheriff of 
Tioga county in 1840, and served four years. He died on the 
26th of February, 1877. 

The earliest settler of Flemingville was, probably, Asahel 
Pritchard. He was born in Connecticut, May 28, 1763. He came 
into the Wyoming valley with his step-father, and after the mas- 
sacre, in July, 1778, he came to Nichols, in this county. Soon 
afterward he came to Flemingville, where he settled on the East 
Owego creek, and engaged in deer hunting. He bought the farm 
on which his grandson, Asa Pritchard, now resides, about a mile 
north of the Flemingville church, and paid for it in the game he 
shot, and without doing a day's work on his farm himself, he hired 
others to clear it, and paid them from the proceeds of his hunt- 
ing. Soon after coming to Flemingville, he returned to Con- 
necticut, where he married Polly Stedman, oti' the 22d day of 
August, 1790, returning at once, accompanied by his wife, who> 
rode all the way on horseback. He died at Flemingville, Septem- 
ber 24, 1840. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 397 



Mrs. Stedman's brother, Amzi Stedman, was born in Connecti- 
cut, January 14, 1783. He was seven years of age when his sister 
was married, and he accompanied her to Flemingville. He became 
the owner of the farm next above the Pritchard farm, on which 
his son, Lyman Stedman, now resides. He died at Flemingville, 
February 21, 1854. 

Daniel Ferguson and Daniel Ferguson, Jr. came to Flemingville 
sometime previous to 1791. The elder Ferguson was a soldier 
in the revolutionary war. Judge Avery, in his, "Susquehanna 
Valley" papers, (5A Nicholas,-^. 361) says: 

" During the early progress of the war, then a young man, -he 
•was taken captive upon the Delaware, by the Indians, and 
brought by them to the present site of the village^of Owego, 
where he was detained as a captive through the winter, and for 
a larger proportion of the year. The Indian family by whom he 
had been adopted, and with whom he lived, occupied their bark 
lodge near where Paige street intersects River [Front] street. 
Upon his subsequent settlement in this town he was able to des- 
ignate its precise locality, by its proximity to the Indian burial, 
mound, near or upon the homestead premises of the late Eleazar 
Dana, Esq., which retained its peculiar shape long after the village 
was settled. The summer next after his capture, he accompanied 
liis foster-father upon an expedition to the Delaware, and by an in- 
genious stratagem escaped in the night, and made his way to a 
white settlement at Port Jervis, in Orange county, where his 
friends resided previous to his capture. In relating the incidents 
of his captivity, he uniformly made mention of the considerate 
kindness, exhibited by the Indian family toward him at all 
times." 

Jeremiah Brown and his son, Benjamin Brown, were early 
settlers near the present village of Union, Broome county, some 
time previous to 1791. They removed to Flemingville, in 1796, 
None of their descendants reside here, but Solomon Brown, a 
son of Benjamin, lives at Union. 

Another early settler was Richard Searles, who was born in 
1753, and who came from Bedford, Mass., to Nichols, in 1791, 
removing thence to Flemingville, in 1795, where he built a saw- 
aiill. He died September 9, 1849. 

Charles E. Truman, of Flemingville, was born in Candor, 
November i, 1807, and located upon the farm now owned by his 
son, Charles F., in 1816. He married Harriet Webster, May 26, 
1836, who has bc*ne him nine children, all of whom are living,, 
and in 1886 they celebrated their golden wedding. The children 
are Aaron B., Adelaide (Mrs. Henry W. Blewer), Adeline (Mrs. 
Frank J. Blewer), Helen, Lyman B., Elias W., Charles. F., Lucy 



398 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



(Mrs. William Mead), Lydia (Mrs. Adelbert Hammond). Mr, 
Truman has held most of the minor town offices, has been, a 
justice of the peace for the past twenty -four years, and post- 
master about the same period. 

Apalachin is situated on the south side of the Susquehanna 
river, eight miles east of Owego village. It derives its name 
from the town of Apalacon, Susquehanna Co., Pa., where the 
Apalachin creek rises. Apalacon and Apalachin are, apparently, 
corruptions of the name Appallachian, the general- appellation of 
the great mountain system, stretching from Maine to Alabama. 

There was no village at Apalachin until about the year 1836, 
when William S. Pearsall came here from Chenango county. 
Ransom Steele came soon afterward from Owego, to open and 
manage a branch store for John Hollenback. He afterward 
engaged in the mercantile business on his own account, and was. 
for many years also engaged in lumbering. 

Four brothers, Nathaniel, Thomas, William S. and Gilbert 
Pearsall, came together to Tioga county, or at about the same 
time. They built saw-mills, and owned them in partnership, at 
Apalachin, Hooper's Valley, and Pea Island, near the Pennsyl- 
vania line, and also owned a large lumber yard near Baltimore, 
In the financial depression of 1837, they failed in business. Gil- 
bert and William Pearsall obtained an extension of time, and 
afterward resumed business. The brothers at the same time dis- 
solved their partnership and divided their property. About the- 
year 1840, Gilbert and William Pearsall built grist-mills at Hoop- 
er's Valley and Apalachin, at a cost of from $5,000.00 to $6,ooo.oO' 
each. 

William S. Pearsall and Ransom Steele were the active busi- 
ness men of Apalachin, and were the chief stockholders of the 
bridge, which was built across the Susquehanna river at Apala- 
chin, in 1849, ^t ^ cost of $75,000.00, and which was afterward 
carried away by a freshet. 

The earliest settler of Apalachin was Isaac Harris, a Quaker, 
who came, in 1786, from Providence, R. I. The next year, he- 
returned, and removed his wife {nee Nancy Reed, whom he mar- 
ried in 1786), and household goods, coming down the river fromi 
Cooperstown in a rough boat, which he built for that purpose- 
Mr. Harris and a partner had made a contract for the purchase 
of the land known as Coxe's Patent, paying part down. His- 
partner started for Philadelphia to pay the balance, and was never 
heard from afterward. Mr. Harris settled on the Apalachin creek. 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 399. 



on the river road, on what has since been known as the Glann 
farm and the Pardon Yates farm. The first white child born at 
Apalachin was their daughter, Phebe, who married Willard' 
Thayer, afid settled on the Holland Purchase. Isaac Harris died 
about the year 1835, aged seventy-four years. 

Amariah Yates came from Massachusetts, in 1791, and settled, 
at the mouth of the Apalachin creek. One of his sons, Paul 
Yates, settled about two miles east of Owego, on the west sid& 
of the Little Nanticoke creek. 

Caleb Nichols and his son, Simeon Nichols, both revolutionary 
soldiers, came from Rhode Island, in the latter part of the year 
1791. The former died in 1804, and the latter May 16, 1856, aged 
ninety-three years. • 

John Bills and his nephew, Abel Bills, came from New Leba^ 
non, N. Y., in 1792. 

Major David Barney, a revolutionary soldier, came down the" 
river from Cooperstown, with a large family of children, and was- 
one of the first settlers of the town of Vestal, Broome county. 
He removed to Apalachin, in 1802, and built the first house ore 
Apalachin creek. 

John Hicks Horton came from Rhode Island, soon after Caleb 
Nichols came, and settled two miles below Apalachin, opposite 
Campville. 

, Thomas Tracy came to this vicinitj' with his wife and infant 
son, Benjamin Tracy,, and settled near the mouth of Tracy creek 
Broome county, in 1790. The creek received its name from Mr^ 
Tracy. In 1801, he removed with his family to Caroline, Tomp- 
kins county, and thence to the Holland Purchase, near Buffalo. 
His son Benjamin, several years afterward, returned and settled 
on the Apalachin creek, where he raised a large family of chil' 
dren, one of whom is Gen. Benjamin F. Tracy, of Brooklyn. Ben- 
jamin Tracy died January 31, 1883. 

John Jewett, with his sons Asaand John Jewett, Jr., came from" 
Putnam county, in the winter of 1816-17, and settled one mile 
west of Apalachin. He was thegrandfather of Harry Jewett, Esq.,. 
of Owego. While residing in Putnam county, he had held the 
offices of county clerk and member of assembly. He died in 
April, 1849. 

Henry Billings settled at Apalachin, about the year 1822, and 
kept the first tavern here. 

Dr. Isaac W. Lewis, of Apalachin, was born in Owego, January 
2, 1821. His parents soon after removed to Glenville, N. Y.,. 



400 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



where they resided till he was fourteen years of age, when they 
returned to Owego. The doctor attended the common schools 
there, and after coming here graduated from the Manninton 
Academy, at Silver Lake, Pa., began the study of medicine 
with Dr. Ezekill Daniels, and graduated at the Castleton.Vt., 
Medical College, in 1848. He commenced practice in Silver Lake, 
Pa., and in 1852 came to Apolachin, where he has practiced since. 
Dr. Lewis married Ellen Sutton, in 1844, who bore him five chil- 
<iren, three of whom are living, viz.: James A., a physician, of 
Ithaca, N. Y., Hattie E. (Mrs. William loderlid), and George B., 
a practicing physician, of Owego. Mrs. Lewis died in 1874, and 
in 1876 the doctor married Mrs. Susan A. Catlin, of Tioga, N. Y. 
-f^. F. Tracy & Son's Marshland stock farms here, consist of six 
hundred acres, on the river road, where they carry on very 
•extensively the business of breeding and raising the best blooded 
trotting horses. They have been engaged in this business since 
1878, and have constantly on hand from one hundred to one 
hundred and twenty- five head of horses, and employ about twenty- 
iive men. As breeders of superior trotters, the Messrs. Tracy 
have a wide spread reputation, and their system and equipments 
for raising and breaking trotters are second to none in the country. 

Campville is situated on the north bank of the Susquehanna 
river, seven miles east of Owego. The first settler was Col. Asa 
Camp. He came from Columbia county, N. Y., to the town now 
■called Vestal, in Broome county, in the spring of 1789, removing 
thence to Apalachin, in 1792, and subsequently to CampVille, in 
1800.' He was a sergeant in the revolutionary war.* He was a 
witness of Major Andre's execution, and assisted in digging 
his grave. He built the first tavern at Campville, in 1800. He 
held the offices of poundmaster, assessor, commissioner of high- 
ways, and overseer of the poor, and was supervisor of the town 
of Owego, in 1817 and 1818. He was eighty-eight years of age at 
the time of his death, which occurred July 17, 1848. His sons, 
Roswell and Silvester Camp, were both equally prominent men 
in that part of the town. 

Campville was early known as East Owego, but when Stephen 

* Wilkinson's "Annals of Binghamton" (page 88) says of Colonel Camp: "He 
-served in the revolutionary war, in the capacity of sergeant, four years ; commanded at 
Fort Frederick, on the Mohawk ; and with fifteen men in the fort effectually repelled two 
hundred Indians and Tories. When a flag was sent in for them to surrender, Sergeant 
■Camp sent word back, ' that Yankees lived there ; and if they got the fort they must get it 
by the hardest.' He was in the battle of White Plains ; was inone battle on the sea, near 
ihe banks of Newfoundland, and was also at Valley Forge." 







iMHIBV 1) f^SU 




TOWN OF OWEGO. 40I 

B. Leonard was in. congress he caused the name to be changed 
to Campville, in honor of Colonel Camp. 

Gaskill Corners is a hamlet situated on the Little Nanticoke 
■creek, about five miles northeast of Owego. It derives its name 
from Joseph Gaskill, who was born at Richmond, N. H., April 22, 
1780, and removed to the town of Owego with his father, Silas 
Gaskill, March 20, 1789, and to Gaskill Corners, in 1822. He 
married Mariam Wilcox, January i, 1803, and became the father 
of six children. Of these, only Paul and Samuel are living. Mr. 
Gaskill died here June 19, 1866. 

Elijah Walter was one of the first settlers at Gaskill Corners, 
about 1 8 10. He came from Great Barrington, Mass., and located 
upon what is now known as the Walter farm. He married 
Abigail Gifford and had five children who attained an adult age, 
only three of whom, Alonzo, Artemas, and Sarah (Mrs G. R. 
Curtis) are living. Artemas who still lives at the Corners, was 
born February 14, 1822, married Frances Hagan, August 21, 1841, 
and has eight children now living. 

The postoffice was established here in July, 1866, and Clark 
Green was the first postmaster. The present postmaster is Har- 
mon Curtis. 

South Owego is situated about seven and one-half miles south- 
east of Owego, near the Pennsylvania line. 

Gibson Corners, situated about four miles south of Owego, 
was so named from Eli Gibson, who settled there in the spring 
of 1835. He was born at Stowe, Middlesex county, Mass., June 
17, 179s, and died March 12, 1864. 

Wait Settlement, situated in the southwest corner of the 
town, was so named from Henry Wait, who purchased 900 acres 
of land and removed thereon from Saratoga county, in 18 19. 

The County Poor Farm, on road 40, consists of one hundred 
acres, upon which is located the County Alms House and Insane 
Asylum. The indigent ones here are supported at the expense of 
the town from which they have gamed a residence, while tran- 
sient ones, or those having no permanent place of residence, are 
supported at the expense of the county at large. The alms house 
is a large stone structure, built in 1839-40. The insane asylum, 
located opposite the latter, is a wooden structure, built in 1885- 
56. It is very commodious and complete, having accommoda- 
tions for, and does accommodate, others than indigent unfortu- 
nates. It is said to be the finest county asylum in the state. The 
property was purchased and devoted to the purposes of a poor 



402 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



farm, in 1836. The institution now has about fifty inmates at the 
alms house, and thirtj'-six in the asylum. The institution and farm 
are now under the charge of Daniel Johnson, who was appointed, 
to the position in 1879. 

Nathan H. Ellis's Grist Mill, on road 40, was built about 1 826, 
The present proprietor purchased the property July i, 1885. The 
mill was purchased by John Pettigrove, about 1854, who owned 
the property till purchased by Mr. Ellis. In connection with the 
mill Mr. Pettigrove operated a distillery for many years. The: 
mill has three runs of stones, and one set of rolls. He does cus- 
tom work. 

Homer Searles's Steam Saw-Mill was built by him about 1880, 
It has a circular-saw, and cuts about 500^000 feet of lumber per 
year, giving employment to six men. In connection with the 
mill he has a threshing-machine, and shingle and lath- mill. 

Mrs. Margaret Walter's Saw-Mill was built about 1874. It is 
operated by steam-power, has a circular-saw, and does custom 
work. 

Harmon Curtis' s Saw and Feed Mill, at Gaskill Corners, was- 
built by him in 1883. It is operated by steam-power, has a 
circular saw, and also a threshing-machine in connection. The 
saw-mill turns out about 200,000 feet of lumber per year. 

Campbell & Lamphere' s saw and planing mill, at Apalachin, was 
built by Charles Baker, in 1884, and was bought by the present 
firm in the spring of 1887. The mill has a circular-saw, bench- 
saws, planer and matcher, turning lathe, etc., being fully equip- 
ped throughout, and operated by steam-power. 

Leonard Foster' s saw and feed-mill, on road 27, was built by him 
in 1870, upon the site of the old Foster mill, built by his father, 
Daniel R. Foster, in 1836. The pres'ent mill is run by steam- 
power, has a circular-saw, lath-mill, planer, etc., and turns out 
about 500,000 feet of lumber per year, employing about eight 
men during the winter season. The feed mill is for custom work. 

CHURCHES. 

First Presbyterian Church of Owego. — On the 7th day of August,. 
1810, the society with which the First Presbyterian Church of 
Owego is now connected, was formed, and Solomon Jones, Caleb 
Leach, Abraham Hoagland, William Camp, James Pumpelly,and 
Eleazer Dana were elected trustees. No church was organized 
until July 24, 1817. On that day a congregational church, con- 



TOWN OF OWEGO. 403 



rsisting of eleven members, was organized. The church was taken 
under the care of the presbytery of Cayuga, in August, 18 17, and 
-was transferred to the presbytery of Tioga on the organisation 
of that body. In July, 1831, the church abandoned the Congre- 
gational form of government and adopted the Presbyterian form 
of government in full, electing Solomon Jones, William Piatt, 
Eleazer Dana, and William Pumpelly, ruling elders. The first 
pastor of the church was Rev. Daniel Loring. The present pas- 
tor is Rev. Alexander C. McKenzie. Services were held in the 
•school-house on Main street, near McMaster street, until 1819, 
when a chiirch was built of wood at the northeast corner of 
Temple street and North avenue. This church was torn down, 
in 1854, and the present brick edifice erected on its site. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church of Owego was regularly organ- 
ized in 1817, at which time it was taken from the Tioga circuit. 
At that time Rev. Mr. Payne was the pastor. Through his efforts* 
Iheirfirstchurchedifice was built, in 1822, at the southeast corner 
of Main and Academy streets. Previous to this time meetings 
had been held in the Main street school-house. The present 
brick church on Main street was built, in 1870. The present pas- 
tor is Rev. W. M. Hiller. 

The first Baptist Church of Owego was organized on the 20th of 
-September, 1831, by a society of thirty persons, at a meeting held 
in Daniel Chamberlain's wagon shop, which stood at the south- 
west corner of Park and Main streets. The meetings were held 
for a few weeks in the wagon shop, a box placed on the front 
"bench serving as a pulpit. In November, the society obtained the 
use of Masonic Hall on Front street, where services were held 
until 1836, when the wooden church at the southeast corner of 
•Church and Main streets, which had been built the year previous, 
was dedicated. This church was removed, in 1857, and the 
present brick edifice erected upon its site. The first regular 
pastor was James R. Burdick, who assumed charge, in June, 
1833. The present pastor is Rev. Reuben E. Burton. 

The. African Methodist Episcopal Church was organized about 
the year 1843. The first preacher was Rev. Joshua Johnson. 
Their church, on Fox street, was formerly the lecture-room of 
the First Presbyterian church, and was removed from Temple 
street to its present location. The present pastor is Rev. R. H. 

Shirley. 

St. Paul's Episcopal Church was organized February 10, 1834. 
IServices were held in the old Presbyterian lecture-room, which 



404 TOWN OF OWEGO. 



stood on theeast side ol Court street, adjoining the old acad- 
emy ground, until 1839, when the present church was built on 
the south side of Main street. Rev. John Bailey was the first 
rector of the church. The present rector is Rev. James H. 
Kidder. 

Congregational Church of Owego. — In February, 1850, forty-six 
members of the First Presbyterian Church withdrew by certifi- 
cate, and formed the Congregational Church of Owego. Rev, 
Samuel C. Wilcox was engaged as pastor. Services were held at 
the court-house until February, 1852, when a wooden church 
was completed on the west side of Park street. This church was 
destroyed by fire, in December, 1877, ^"d the present brick 
church was built on its site in the following .year. . The present 
pastor of the church is Rev. Oliver R. Howe. 

St. Patrick's Roman Catholic Church of Owego was organized 
about the year 1840. Rev. Father John Sheridan was the first 
priest. The church was built in 1847. The present pastor is 
Rev. Father Thomas D. Johnson. St. Patrick's school-house 
was built in i860. The Convent of the Sisters of Mercy was 
instituted, in 1865, and changed into St. Joseph's Orphan Asy- 
lum, in 1871. 

The Flemingville Methodist Episcopal Church was organized in 

181 1, with fifteen members. The church building, a wooden 

-Structure erected in 1834, will comfortably seat 300 persons, and 

is valued, including grounds, etc., at $3,600.00. The society now 

has 260 members, with Rev. C. D. Shepard, pastor. 

The Free Will Baptist Church of South Apalachin was organized 
in October, 1816, w^ith fourteen members, and Rev. John Gould 
was the first pastor. A church building was erected in 1844, and 
gave place to the present structure in 1859. The society now 
has fifty members, with Rev. William Fuller, pastor. 

The South Owego Methodist Episcopal Church was organized 
about 1830, and Rev. John Griffing was its first pastor. The 
church building was erected in 1857. The society now has fifty 
members, with Dr. L. W- Peck, pastor. 

The Free Will Baptist Church of Apalachin was organized by its' 
first pastor. Rev. H. S. Ball, in 1869. The church building was 
erected in 1872. The society has at present no regular pastor. 

The Whittemore Hill Methodist Episcopal Church was built in 
1850-51. The society was then organized. It belongs with the 
Union, Broome county, charge, and Rev. George T. Price is 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 405 



..pastor. It is a neat wooden structure, and the land for its site 
was leased to the society by Isaac Whittemore, for $1.00, "so long^ 
as it is used for church purposes," then to revert to the farm. 



RICHFORD* is located in the northeast corner of the county. 
Its surface is mostly up-Iand, broken by narrow valleys. The 
West Owego creek forms the western boundary, and the 
east branch of the creek forms the principal valley, which runs- 
through the middle of the town, north and south. The northern 
boundary is the division line between Tioga and Cortland 
counties, and the south boundary is five miles south <?f the north 
line, the lines running parallel, due east and west. The east line of 
the town is quite irregular, though it is the dividing line between 
the counties of Brootne and Tioga, having been fixed on original 
lines of certain lots which were numbered in the original survey 
of the "Boston Purchase," and the lines running north and south^ 
only extended between, running from either parallel to another, so 
that the north and south lines of lots did not range one with the 
other, hence there is seven right angles in the east line of the 
town, some of which turn east and others west. In area, the 
town comprises ninety-two original lots, averaging about two- 
hundred and seventy-five acres each, and numbering from lot 
No. 421, in the south-east corner, to lot No. 431, on the south 
side; and on the north side from lot 569, in the north-east corner, 
to lot 580. The town is from seven to ten miles wide, in an air 
'line across from the east to the west line. On the north border 
is the highest lands in the county, indeed, the border is on the 
ridge of the great watershed that forms two sides of the vast 
lake basin that is drained through the Gulf of St. Lawrence. This 
summit divides the drainage, the water flowing northward into 
the basin, and onward into the St. Lawrence, to mingle with the 
waters that flow southward, through Chesapeake Bay, in the 
Atlantic. The summits are 2,000 feet above tide. In the creek 
valley, where the depot is located, the altitude is 1,090 feet above 
sea level, 271 feet higher than Owego. This difference in altitude 
occasions more variation in climate than does the difference in 
latitude. The highest point in the aforementioned valley is in 



*Fcr much of the matter relative to the history of this town, we are indebted to Mr. C, 
J. Robinson, of Richford. 



4o6 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Dryden, four miles north of the town of Richford, the elevation 
(being 1,208 feet above tide. Near the northeast corner of the 
town, on lot 530, and farm of James Sears, is an elevated point of 
arable land, from which may be seen, by the aid of a telescope, 
the waters of Lake Ontario, and eastward, the landscape stretch- 
ing across the north part of Broome and south part of Chenango 
and south corner of Otsego counties, into Delaware county, the 
view extending into eight counties. This high point is the sum- 
mit of the angle in the watershed, running northward and west- 
ward, stretching along some six miles south of lake Erie, onward 
.around the south basin. All along on the watershed ridge, on 
•either slope, the land is arable, and the most elevated lands are 
equally productive with the valleys, indeed, the best farms in the 
town lie on the high ranges. 

Origin of Name. — The village of Richford first took its name, 
in 1821, at the time the "public square" was surveyed and granted 
by deed, for public purposes. The grantors were Ezekiel Rich, 
who donated the north half, and Stephen Wells, the south half. 
Both deeds set forth that : "Said land is to be used for a public 
.square, and for no other purpose, reserving to all persons owning 
or possessing the land around said square the privilege of twelve 
feet in front of the line of square for piazzas, flagging, shade-trees, 
.and railing ; but no person to set the front of his building over in 
front of the square." The deeds bear date October 9, 1821, and 
they were duly executed on October 13, 1821, by being acknowl- 
edged in due form before David Williams, who was then a judge 
•of the court of common pleas, in and for the county of Broome, 
and the deeds were recorded in the Broome county clerk's officej 
in book of deeds No. 8, page 20, on the 24th day of October, 1821. 
From Mr. Rich, the village was called "Richford," which ulti- 
mately became the name of the town. It should be remembered, 
in this connection, that Broome county was formed from Tioga, 
March 28, 1806, and that Owego and Berkshire, formerly adjoin- 
ing towns, were reannexed to Tioga county, March 21, 1822, 
which made the territory of the town of Richford a part of Tioga 
county. 

Until as late as 1812, the territorial limits of the town of Rich- 
iord was, practically, an unbroken wilderness of primitive forest. 
The aborigines had located their camps and hunted here, long 
before, and some lingered after the settlament began. An open- 
ing of a few acres in the southwest corner of the town, on Iqt 
423, near the present residence of Widow Jewett, had been made 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 407 



by the Indians, leaving traces of cultivation. From no records 
can the exact date when the first vk^hite settlement was begun,' 
nor can it be said definitely to whom belonged such honor. One 
well versed in the pioneer history of this section, however, has 
placed in iDur hands the following article, entitled the 

EARLY HOUSEHOLDS OF RICHFORD.* 

Evan Harris, if tradition is correct, was the first settler where 
the village of Richford now stands. He was a weaver, and came 
from Berkshire county, Mass., but how early, is not known. He 
was certainly here before 6 Jan., 1808, on which day he earned 
half a dollar by chopping for Joseph Waldo, of Berl^hire. He 
dwelt in the log house where Nathaniel Johnson afterward lived, 
north of the spring where Philip Lacy now lives. His wife died 
19 Feb., 1812, and was buried in the Brown cemetery; below the 
village of Berkshire. It is said that she died of consumption, 
and there is evidence that her passage to the grave was made as 
easy as possible by the use of paregoric. The names of his chil- 
dren are not known, with the exception of one son, Evan Harris, 
Jr., who was badly burned, according to tradition, by falling back- 
ward into a kettle of hot maple sugar, 10 April, 1812. This was 
nearly two months after the mother's death, the father was away 
from home, and the lad helped himself out of the kettle, and did 
not stop till he reached the house of Jeremiah Campbell, over a 
mile' down the valley, where Mrs. Campbell kindly cared for him 
till his burns were healed. Another child was born 17 Aug., 
1811. 

Elisha Harris was in the same region as early as March, 1808, 
and perhaps was a relative of Evan Harris. He had chddren : 

I. , b 24 Dec, 1808. II. , b 28 Dec, 181 1. 

It is thought that Elisha Harris lived in what is now called 
Caroline, N. Y. His name occurrs in John Brown's account 
' book, in December, 1798, and he was taxed, in 1802, in Tioga. 

Paul Stevens was an early settler of Richford, on lot 424, one 
of the south tier of lots in the town. He built a log house, on 
the side of the way, but the road when properly laid passed 
directly over the site of it. This place he sold in the spring of 
1821, to Gad Worthington, and left the place with all of his family. 
He is remembered as a worthy, pious man, and Mrs. Caroline Rich 

* From an unfinished wort, in manuscript, entitled the " Folk Book of the Boston Pur- 
chase," by D. Williams Patterson, of Newark Valley. 

ar* 



408 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



thought he was a member of the First Church of Tioga, etc. But 
the records do not reveal his name. He used to go up the valley 
to lot 533, about three miles above the village, to make his maple 
sugar. 

Only an imperfect list of his children has been found : 

I. Paul, probably the eldest son, born as early as 1797 ; was- 
drafted as a soldier in the war of 1812. He remained in Rich- 
ford after his father moved away, and was evidently of full age- 
in April, i8i8,able to buy whiskey, tobacco, and clothing on credit^ 
and 17 July, 1818, he prepared for haying, by purchasing a scythe- 
at one dollar and fifty cents. He is remembered as the drummer 
of the Berkshire company of militia, and able to play .his part in 
all the military customs of that time. 

II. Seth, was about Richford in March 1818; and probably 
went away with his father, soon after that. 

III. David, is also remembered as one of the family. 

IV. , b 14 May 1809, name unknown. 

John Watson lived on the N. E. quarter of 421, the S. W. cor- 
ner lot of Richford, where Daniel P. Witter now lives. He married 
with Susanna Smith, and dwelt in Rutland, Mass., tell after their 
first child was born; then moved to Hinsdale, Mass., and, April,. 
1810, came to the Boston Purchase. He finally had another 
attack of Western fever, went to Unadilla, Michigan, and there 
died. Their children after the first, were born in Hinsdale, Mass.:: 

I. Susan, m with James Livermore, of Caroline Centre. 

II. Rebecca, m in 18 10, with Ira Richards of Hinsdale, Mass.^ 
and settled in Riga, N. Y. 

III. Mary, m with Abraham Burghardt, Jr. 

IV. Sally, died in childhood at Hinsdale, Mass. 

V. Samuel Smith, b 13 May, 1800: m 4 March, 1829, with 
Betsey Rounseville, who died at Caroline, N. Y., 18 July, 1833, 
aged 29 years. He m (2d) 3 September, 1834, with Jerusha 
Harmon. In 1838 they moved to Newark Valley, and died there. 

VI. John, settled at Unadilla, Michigan, and was living there- 
in 1881. 

VII. James Lockhart, m with Mary Gilbert, and settled on thr 
West Owego creek in the N. W. corner of Berkshire, and died 
there. 

VIII. Jane, died in Richford, when about sixteen years old. 
Artemas Watkins, born in Peru, Mass., 25 Aug., 1786, son of 

John Watkins, married with Phebe Gilbert, who was born at 
Peru, about 1790, daughter of Benson Gilbert. They left Peru,. 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 409 



about 1812, and settled in Richford, west of the turnpike, on the 
southwest quarter of lot 461, which place is now owned by Rich- 
ard Moore. His brother, John Watkins, settled in Newark Val- 
ley, about the same time. She died 30 May, 1840, of erysipelas, 
aged 51 years, 3 months and 10 days. He died 20 May, 1865, of 
apoplexy, aged 78 years. They were buried at Speedsville. 
Their children were: 

I. Betsey, b at Peru, Mass., 8 April, 1809, ; m with Levi Gil- 
bert ; died 15 Jan., 1855. 

n. Anna, b at Peru, Mass., 12 Dec, 1811 ; m with Erastus E. 
Humphrey, and they reside at Speedsville, N. Y. 

III. Semantha, b at Richford, about 1812 ; m with John B. 
Leonard, She m (2d) with Daniel Rowley, of Richford, and 
died 24 Jan., 1887, aged 75 years. 

IV. Benson Gilbert, m with Elizabeth Parsons, and resides at 
Montrose, Penn. 

V. Reuben, died at Richford, when two years old. 

VI. Lyman, m with Lucia Hastings, daughter of Joel Hast- 
ings, and died at Owego, aged 63 years. 

VII. Polly, m with Leroy Krum, and resides at Elmira, N. Y., 
a widow. 

VIII. Ira W., b at Richford, 4 April, 1822; m with Lydia 
Hubbard, and resides at Cortland village, N. Y. 

IX. Amanda M., b in 1824 ; ™ with John B. Crandall, and they 
reside at Cortland, 111. 

X. Amos Greenleaf, b 24 June, 1826, at Richford ; m there, 13 
March, 1850, with Catharine Elliott, who died 27 July, 1866. He 
m (2d) at New York, g Feb., 1870, with Sait Hover, daughter of 
Cornelius and Eunice (Squires) Hover. He resides at Richford, 
a justice of the peace. 

XI. Cvnthia A., b in 1828 ; m with William A. Hines, and lives 
at Manchester, Iowa. 

XII. Harriet, b 25 Aug., 1831 ; m with Squire D. Freeland, son 
of Joseph Freeland, and they reside in the southwest corner of 
Richford. 

Samuel Smith, son of Heman and Lucy (Taylor) Smith, was 
born at , Mass., about 1784; m with Huldah Goodale, daugh- 
ter of Isaac and Jemima (Warner) Goodale, of Berkshire, N. Y., 
formerlv of Westhampton, Mass., where she was born on Tues- 
day, 26 March, 1782. They settled on Berkshire West hill, 
where she died 5 July, 181 1. He m (2d) with Theodosia Dewey, 
who was born at Pittsfield, Mass., 28 Nov., 1791, daughter of 



4IO TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Ezekiel and Hannah (Barker) Dewey. They were among^ the 
■earliest settlers at the village of Richford, where he built a small 
house, about 1813, east of the valley road, and north of the turn- 
pike, in which he kept a tavern, till about 1817, when he sold it, 
probably to Beriah Wells, and moved to lot 384, on the north- 
■east quarter, east of the road, where he died 3 May, 1846, aged 
■sixty-two years. She died at Berkshire, 24 May, 1864, aged 
seventy-two years and six months.. Tradition says that one of his 
children died at Richford, and was buried in the ground now 
occupied as the garden of the hotel. Their other children were : 

I. Hannah, b at Richford, 29 Nov., 1813. 

II. Miriam, b at Berkshire, 3 Dec, 1819. 

III. Ezekiel Dewey, b at Berkshire, 16 Feb., 1822 ; m at Berk- 
shire, N. Y., 5 March, 1845, with Jane Ford, who died there, 
29 May, 1852. He m (2d) with Mary Scott, and died at Owego, 
of consumption. 

IV. Lucy T., b at Berkshire, N. Y., 13 Jan., 1825, and died 
there, 18 Jan., 1850. 

V. Charlotte, unmarried. 

Nathaniel Johnson lived on the west side of the road in the 
-village of Richford, and was one of the early settlers in that part 
•of the town, if some traditions are trustworthy. He married 
with Lucy Smith, a sister of Samuel Smith, and daughter of 
Heman and Lucy (Taylor) Smith, of Berkshire. She died, and 
Ihe m (2d) with Clarissa Goodale, widow of his first wife's brother, 
Heman Smith, Jr., and daughter of Isaac and Jemima (Warner) 
Goodale. Mr. C. J. Robinson calls him "the third settler within 
the domain of Richford," and says: " He moved into the house 
vacated by Mr. Evan Harris in 1814. He remained on the lands 
he first purchased durmg sixteen years, and then migrated west. 
Mr. Johnson's home was the home of tramping missionary and 
circuit preachers. These Christian devotees were ever kindly 
welcomed by the new settler and his family, and as Mr. Johnson 
was not a professor or church member, those callers used to call 
their host ' Brother-in-law Johnson,' and sometimes ' The good 
sinner.' " Other people, who had the advantage of knowing him 
personally, say that he was a very worthy, zealous and consistent 
member of the Methodist church. He dwelt where Mr. Hotch- 
kiss S. Finch now lives, on the west side of the way. They had 
.children : 

I. Lucy, b at Fairfield, Vt., 15 Jan., 1800, m with Ezekiel 
IDewey. II. Smith. 



TOWN OF RICPFORD. 4I I 



III. Eber, m with Sally Goodale, and after living in Richford 
for, several years, moved to Michigan. They had a child born 
18 Aug., 1821. 

IV. Rachel, m with William Warner Goodale. 

V. Norman. It has been said that he became a Mormon. 

VI. Zilpha, b about the latter part of March, 1810, m with 
Daniel Farnham, who died in Ithaca, N. Y. She afterward set- 
tled in Syracuse. 

Heman Daniels came with his father, Nathan Daniels, from 
Brandon, Vt., to Paris, Oneida Co., N. Y. He married with 
Elvira Walker, from Conn., and settled in Susquehanna county,. 
Penn., and, after a few years, returned to Sangersfield, Oneida 
Co., N. Y. In the spring of 1816, they came intoT?.ichford, via 
Cortlandville, and settled where Alfred Davis now lives, on the 
west side of the road, on lot 574, the middle lot of the north tier,, 
in the present town of Richford, and this was the first household 
in the east valley, north of the village, and dwelt there in Dec, 
1820. He was born in 1787, and died 6 March, 1883, aged nearly 
ninety-six years. He was a soldier of the war of 18 12. She died 
28 Aprtl, 1836. They were buried at Harford. Their children 
were: 

I. Heman, b in Susquehanna Co., Penn., 16 Nov., 1809, m 
March, 1836, with Nancy Gleazen, and they still live in Richfofd, 
on lot 548. 

II. Elmon Walker. 

HI. Elvira, nv with Henry Blackman. 

IV. Calvin Walker. 

V. Betsey Maria, m with Ezekiel Brerly, and m (2d) with 
Erastus Sheldon, and they now dwell in Owego. 

VI. , a son, died when a few days old. 

VII. Jason, b at Richford, settled at Montello, Wis., and in 
1886, moved a few miles from there. 

Samuel Gleazen, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 4 April, 1783, son of 
Joseph Gleazen, was a mason. He m i January, 1804, with 
Nancy Rathbone, of Stockbridge, who was born 22 July, 1784, 
and died at Richford, i July, 1831. He married (2d) 5 March,. 
1832, with Susanna (Scott) Gleazen, widow of his brother, 
Ebenezer Ede Gleazen. He dwelt in Stockbridge, till 1808^ 
then settled in the west border of Berkshire, afterward at Berk- 
shire village, and moved in the spring of 1817 to the village of 
Richford, in which he then built the fourth house, near where the 
Congregational church stands. For this house he cut a place in 



412 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



the woods just large enough so that the remaining trees should not 
reach the house in falling. In the spring of 1826 he returned to 
Stockbridge, and remained till the fall of 1828, when he returned 
via the Erie canal and Cayuga Lake to Richford, where he died 
August, 1865, aged eighty-two years. Mr. Gleazen was brought 
up by Pepoon of Stockbridge, which accounts for his remain- 
ing there after the rest of the family came to Berkshire. His 
children were : 

I. Horatio Jones, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 9 November, 1804; 
m 2 February, 1835, with Marietta Chaplin, and died in Cort- 
landville N. Y., in May, i860. 

n. Abigail Pepoon, b at Stockbridge, Mass., 28 November, 
1806; m with her cousin, Absalom Gleazen, son of Caleb 
Gleazen. 

III. Nancy, b at Berkshire, 18 July, 1809; m March, 1836, with 
Heman Daniels, and they still reside in Richford, and the 
accuracy of this history depends essentially upon their excellent 
memories. 

IV. Lorain Grant, b at Berkshire, 17 September, 181 1 ; m with 
Jane A. Wentworth, and settled in Iowa, where he died 27 De- 
cember, 1855. 

V. Mary, bat Berkshire, 4 June, 1813; died 8 November, 
1813. 

VI. Mary, b at Berkshire, 12 December, 1814; m March, 
1836, with Ransom Sexton. She died. He still resides in Rich- 
ford. 

VII. Hannah, b at Richford, 9 January, 1818; died 4 March, 
185 1, unmarried. 

VIII. Caroline, b at Richford, 3 July, 1820; died 29 August, 
1824. 

IX. Samuel, b at Richford, 19 April, 1823 ; died ro December, 
1823. 

X. Samuel, b at Richford, 29 September, 1824 ; died 10 De- 
cember, 1825. 

XI. Caroline E., b at Stockbridge, Mass., 4 March, 1828; m 
25 December, 1848, with Simeon Bryant, and died at Harford, in 
June, 1854. 

" Mr. Stove" is remembered by Mrs. Daniels, as one of the 
men who lived at the site of Richford village, when her father 
moved there, in 1817, but he soon moved away. 

Beriah Wells kept a tavern north of the turnpike, and east of 
the present village green, in two small houses which had been 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 413 



■drawn together and fitted up by him. One of these houses had 
been built for a tavern, about 1813, by Samuel Smith. The other 
■was built a year or two later, by his brother-in-law, Nathan John- 
son. Mr. Wells was born in Richmond, Mass., i Feb., 1782, in a 
iiouse which stood on the state line, between Massachusetts and 
New York; married in Hopkinton, Rhode Island, 22 Oct., i8o6> 
with Lois Wells, daughter of Thompson Wells, of Wellstown, in 
that town. He was a painter and chairmaker, and settled at 
Lenox, Mass. In the spring of 18 13, he came to Berkshire, now 
Newark Valley, and, about the first of June, began the manufac- 
ture of chairs, as told to his wife in his letter of 21 June, 1813. 
His family arrived here shortly before 21 Nov., 1813, and lived 
in the house with Elisha Wilson one year, while he was building 
his house and shop, on the west side of Berkshire street, the first 
building south of the Wilson creek. In Aug., 1 817, he moved to 
Richford, and kept the tavern, as above stated, till 3 April, 1821, 
when he returned to Newark Valley, having exchanged his Rich- 
iord property with Ezekiel Rich, for a farm on the south side of 
lot 103, where his daughter-in law and grandchildren now live. 
He was a prudent, thrifty, careful man, contented with small 
gains, not disposed to waste either time or money, but always 
taking time to do his work in the most thorough manner ; so deaf 
as to make it hard to take a part in social converse, and possess- 
ing a more kind and generous heart than those who were not inti- 
mate with him were aware of. His wife died 23 June, 1854, aged 
71 years. He died 30 June, 1861. Their children were: 

I. Frederick Theodore, b at Lenox, Mass., 26 Oct., 1807; mar- 
ried at Newark Valley, 22 Feb., 1837, with Jane Benient. He 
died on his father's homestead, 11 Nov., 1866, and his widow and 
■children still live there. 

II. Palmer, b at Richford, 27 June, 1817, and died there 6 Feb., 
,1818. 

III. Edwin Lucius, b at Richford, 3 Aug., 1820; married 14 
Feb., 1855, with Harriet E. Schoonover, and settled in Lisle, 
N. Y,, where he died 18 April, 1873. 

Stephen Wells, b about 1754, m with Love Ford, who was born 
•9 Oct., 1758, daughter of James and Rachel (Backus) Ford. She 
died at Lenox, Mass., 12 Oct., 1786. He married (2d) at East 
Windsor, Conn., 14 Sept., 1788, with Caroline King, who was born 
•6 March, 1752, daughter of Zebulon and Keziah (Loomis) King. 
They moved to Newark Valley about 1815, and thence, about 
1821, with his son, Lucius Wells, to Richford, where he died 18 Feb., 



414 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



1824. He m (3d) with Mrs. Elizabeth (Butler) Griffith, who died 
at Richford, 2 June, 1838, aged ^^ years. He died 14 June, 1838, 
aged 84. Children: 

I. Stephen. [See below.J II. Beriah. [See above.] 

III. Betsey, b at Lenox, Mass., 12 Dec, 1784, died there, 12 
Aug., 1790. 

IV. Love, b at Lenox, Mass., 6 Oct., 1786, m there 16 Dec 
1816, with Rodolphus Cotton, of Lenox. 

V. Lucius, b at Lenox, Mass., 11 Sept., 1789, m there 21 Nov., 
181 1, with Mary Porter. They dwelt in Albany, N. Y., Newark 
Valley, N. Y., and finally in Ithaca, N. Y_., where they died ; he, 
28 Aug., 1831, she, 31 July, 1865. 

Stephen Wells, Jr., a painter and chair maker lived south of the 
turnpike and east of the Valley road. He built the house in 
which Levi Owen now^ lives, and dwelt therein. He was born at 
Lenox, Mass., 20 June, 1777, eldest child of Stephen and Love 
(Ford) Wells ; joined the church there, 20 October, 1799 ; m there 
4 Jan., 1801, with Lois Hubbard, of Lenox. They were dismissed 
21 Jan., 1810, to Dr. Neill's church at Albany, and returned 
24 Sept., 181 5, to that at Lenox, of which he had already been* 
elected a deacon, i Sept., 1815. The}' probably settled at Rich- 
ford, about 1818; and, after a few years removed to Steuben 
county, N. Y. Their children were : 

I. Hubbard Ford, b at Lenox, 11 Dec, 1801. 

II. Eliza, b at Lenox, 11 May, 1803; m 27 June, 1826, with 
Col. Smith, of Sherburne, N. Y. 

III. George, b at Lenox, 14 June, 1805. 

IV. Mary, b at Lenox, 25 Jan., 1807 ; m with Chauncey Hub- 
bard. 

,V. Luke, b at Albany, N. Y., about 1812 ; baptized at Lenox,. 
19 March, 1815 ; was crippled with a disease of the hip ; and died 
at Richford, of dropsy of the head, 12 Aug., 1821, aged nine 
years. 

VI. Henry, b at Richford, in 1821 ; bap. at Newark Valley, 12- 
Aug., 182 1 ; and was drowned in the mill-pond at Richford, 20' 
July 1824, aged three years. 

Ezekiel Dewey lived in the village of Richford. He was borni 
in Westfield, Mass., 9 May, 1797, son of Ezekiel and Hannah 
(Barker) Dewey, came to Richford, in the fall of 1816, and mar- 
ried there "3 July, 1817," with Lucy Johnson, daughter of 41 
Nathaniel and Lucy (Smith) Johnson, of Richford. At one time 
he lived a mile west of Richford village. His wife died 27 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 415^ 



December, 1828 ; and he married (2d) with Eunice Smith, daugh- 
ter of Heman and Almira (Messenger) Smith. She is still living't 
in Berkshire. He died in Berkshire. His children, as follows,- 
were all by the first wife, except the youngest. 

I. , a daughter, b at Richford, died at birth, July, 1818. 

, II. Lucy Semantha, b 18 Oct., 18 19, at Richford, m witb 
Charles Frederick Akins, and married (2d) with John Rightmire,- 
of Caroline, and she died 18 Jan., 1854^ 

III. Jane Elizabeth, b 21 April, 1821, at Richford ; m with- 
Nathan Rightraire. 

IV. David Wesley, b at Berkshire, 18 Feb., 1823; m with- 
Delavan, of Freetown, N. Y., and died about 1873. 

V. Charles Johnson, b at Richford, 10 May, 1826 ft resides in< 
Berkshire. 

VI. Ezekiel Hannum, b at Richford, 8 Oct., 1827; resides at 
Rochester, Mich. 

VII. Amanda, b at Richford, 3 Aug., 1831, m with John 
Rightmire, of Caroline, as his second wife, 29 May, 1854. 

William Belden lived west of the road on the north half of lot 
424, where his son William F. Belden now lives. He was born in 
Lenox, Mass., i April, 1786, son of Oliver and Anna (Steel) Bel- 
den ; m there 4 April, 1809, with Phebe Wright, who was born 
at East Hartford, Conn., 16 October, 1788, daughter of Aaron and 
Phebe (Schalenger) Wright. They dwelt in Lennox, till 1818,- 
then settled in Berkshire, now Richford, living first in a log house- 
from which Paul Stevens had lately moved, while building a new 
house, into which they moved in October, 1818. On his first trip- 
he reached Richford 31 March, 1818, with a wagon load of goods' 
drawn by a yoke of oxen and a horse. He went back for his- 
family, and reached Richford with them on Friday, 17 July, 1818^ 
It is said that he taught the first school there, in his own house. 
She died 13 May, 1855. He died 2 April, 1859. Their children- 
were : 

I. Fanny Maria, b at Lenox, Mass., 8 April, 18 10, and is stilly 
living in Richford. 

II. William Franklin, b at Lenox, Mass., i June, 181 3. 

III. Frederick Carlos, b at Richford, 6 March, 1820. 

Gad Worthington lived east of the road, on the south half o£ 
lot 424, where Charles F. Curtis now lives. He was born at Col- 
chester, Conn., 28 May, 1786, son of Dan and Louis (Foote) Wor- 
thington, of Colchester. He m at Lenox. Mass., 27 August, 1812^ 
with Fanny Belden, who was born there 26 February, 1793,, 



.4l6 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



xlaughter of- Oliver and Anna (Steel) Belden. They dwelt in 
Lenox, till the fall of i8i8, then moved to Richford, where he 
died loMarch, 1861. He built in iSig.the first saw-mill, and two 
or three years later, the first grist-mill, at the village of Richford. 
Their children were : 

I. Dan Leander, b 14 August, 1813 ; ra 6 January, 1836, with 
Indiana Louise Pierson. 

II. Gad Belden, b 2 October, 1815 : m 22 June, 1840, with 
Anna Maria Dixon, who died 20 May 1854. He m (2d) 8 Sept., 
1856, with Susan Towner. 

III. Fanny, b 17 July 1817; m 20 Nov., 1845, with Oscar 
IPackard. 

IV. Samuel Kellogg, b 16 July 1822; m at Hamilton, Ohio, 13 
Sept., 185s, with Rachel Woods. 

V. John, b 29 Jan., 1824 ; m 21 Sept., 1852, with Mary Kimberly. 

VI. Mary Ann, b 16 June, 1828; m 5 Oct., 1848, with Hon. 
Wheeler H. Bristol, of Owego. 

VII. Robert, b 25 Jan. 1830; m Dec, 1859, with Jane Bristol. 
He died at Oakland, Cal., 13 Aug., 1862. 

George T. Pierce bought the north half of lot 548, which he 

-visited in the fall of 1817, and made arrangements to have a log 

iiouse built on it, east of the road, but by a miscalculation the 

house was built on the south half of the lot, just below the middle. 

In the spring of 1818, he brought his family from Paris, Oneida 

•Co., N. Y., and settled in this house. His wife was Simmons, 

.3. cousin of George P. Simmons, and a sister of Mrs. Simmons. 
They must have brought with them as many aa five or six chil- 
-dren, none of whom remain in Richford. This was the second 
household in the east valley of Richford, north of the turnpike. 

George P. Simmons, from Paris, N. Y., bought the south half 
oi lot 548, and in the fall of 1818, made a settlement on it, east of the 
road, where Mrs. Vincent now lives. He married with Sim- 
mons, his own cousin, and a. sister of Mrs. Pierce, above named. 
They must have brought with them as many as five or six chil- 
■dren, none of whom remain in Richford. 

Augustus VanBuren, a very worthy negro, came to Richford, 
in 1818, and settled on twenty-two acres of land on lot 424, which 
he bought of Gad Worthington. His house still stands east of 
the road, a short distance below the bridge. He brought a letter 
of dismission from the church at Lenox, Mass., and he and his 
-wife, Sibyl, were constituent members of the church at Richford, 
J4 Jan., 1823, He had been a slave in the VanBuren family,' at 



rOWN OF RICHFORD. 417 



Kinderhook, and often said that he had many times carried in his 
arms the infant, Martin VanBuren, who in return, sent him money, 
in his old age, to buy tobacco with. Mr. W. F. Belden says "he 
bought his freedom by working seven years for Judge Walker, 
in Lenox, Mass., who paid his master 115 pounds sterling for him. 
He died, aged 102 years, respected by all." Sibyl VanBuren 
died 27 Feb., 1846. She was his second wife, and was not the 
mother of his children. They were: 

I. , a daughter, m at Kinderhook, and remained there. 

II. Hetty, who m with Augustus VanDyke. They joined the 
church at Richford, 12 Aug., 1829, by letter from the P. R. 
Dutch church, of Kinderhook, N. Y., and she died, 30 Jan., 1841, 
aged 48 years. 

III. Sarah, was admitted a member of the church at Richford, 
by profession of faith, 14 Jan., 1823, the day of its organization, 
and died 23 May, 1838, aged about 40 years. 

IV. Joseph, died in Richford. 

Notes to Census Table. — In December, 1820, the Hon. Chester 
Patterson, of Union, N. Y. , who was then enumerating the inhabi- 
tants of Broome county, passed through the town of Berkshire, 
which then included the town of Richford. His list shows, forty- 
five householders within that part of the town which is now 
included in Richford, only six of whom then lived east of the 
valley of the East Owego creek. The following is his list 
of names, with such notes as have been gathered in relation 
to them, and it is beHeved to be substantially correct, though 
not so full as could be wished. The names in this list preceded 
by a star, have already been mentioned ; the others are referred to 
in the following notes, by corresponding numbers. It may be 
well to add, also, that there were no unnaturalized foreigners in 
the town, only three blacks, and no one engaged in commerce. 
The enumeration makes the total population 263. 

2. Henry Krum, lived in or near Richford village, perhaps on 
the turnpike west of there. He married with Harriet Rounseville, 
■who was born at Caroline, N. Y.', 25 Jan., 1801, daughter of John 
^nd Rebecca (Chamberlain) Rounseville. In Dec, 1820, when 
the census was taken they had only one daughter. They have 
since had another daughter and two sons. They afterward moved 
to Caroline, and he died at Slaterville, N. Y., in October, 1886. 
She was living in June, 1887, with her daughter, Mrs. Harrison 
Banfield, on Snyder Hill, near Varna, N, Y. It is said that Mrs 
Krum was the first white child born in the town of Caroline, N.Y. 



4i8 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



CENSUS OF RICHFORD, DECEMBER, 1820. 



Names. 



No. Maijes and Ages. No. Females aks Ages. 



y-^ f^ ^a ^o 

M tH iH T-( 





1 


i 


CO 


s 


§ 


S 


-S 


J 



1-i 


CD 
iH 


CO 


1 




1 
1 


1 






3 






1 








1 


1 


1 




1 
1 


1 


1 


1 


1 




1 


1 


1 


2 


1 






2 




1 


1 








1 


1 
1 

L 
1 
1 


1 




1 
1 


1 




2 


1 




3 
1 


17 


i 


23 



1. 

2. 

3. 

i. 

5. 

6. 

7. 

8. 

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
19. 
20. 
21. 
22. 
23. 
24. 
25. 
26. 
27. 
28. 
29. 
30. 
31. 
32. 
.=33. 
34. 
35. 
36. 

37: 

38. 
39. 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43. 
44. 
—OS. 



*Beriah Wells 

Henry Knim 

Benjamin Bathbun 

*Saniuel Gleazen 

*George P. Simmons 

*George T. Pierce 

*Heman Daniels 

Isaac Goodale 

John Newton 

Henry Morgan 

Zelotee Olney 

Elisha Briggs 

Caleb Arnold 

Jacob Boads 

*Artemas Watkins , 

Wheeler Wood 

Elijah Gilbert 

Amos Baymond 

Daniel Baymond. . ; 

William G. Baymond . 

Enssell Freeland 

*John Watson , 

David Draper 

Daniel Harringlion 

William Lynch , 

Jesse Gleazen, 2d 

Thoioas P. Brown 

Jacob Burghardt 

Isaac Burghardt 

Abraham Bmrghardt 

Samuel Olney 

Abraham Burghardt, Jr. . . 

Martha Tracy , 

♦William Belden 

*Grad Worthington 

♦Augustus VanBuren 

*Ezekiel Dewey 

♦Nathaniel Johnson 

♦Stephen Wells, Jr 

Thomas Tracy. 

Ezra Howlaud 

Abraham Dudley 

Solomon Bussel 

Thomas Bobinson ...... 

Alexander S. Lamb . . . 



Totals : 39 



11 67 



1 
1 
1 
1 
2 
1 
2 
2 
1 



17 i 26 25 I 11 



60 



3. Benjamin Rathbun, lived at Richford village. His history 
has not been found. He is remembered as a teamster, workings 
about the mill, and in the woods, with his own oxen. 

8. Isaac Goodale, lived, it is thought, on lot 580, the north- 
west corner lot in the town, near where George Baker has since 
lived. He was a farmer. He was born in Northampton, Mass., 
on Sunday, 1 Oct., 1780, son of Isaac and Jemima (Warner) 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 419 



Ooodale. He afterward moved to Michig:an, and died there. His 
father lived on Berkshire West Hill, in 1820. 

9. John Newton, lived it is thought, on the same lot with Isaac 
Ooodale, but it has been found difficult to get a trustworthy 
account of them. 

10. Henry Morgan, lived on the south side of the turnpike, 
between that and the creek, on the S, W. quarter of lot 501. He 
built the, saw-mill N. W. of his house, on the little stream that 
comes down the hill there; and turned the water of Trout run 
into it to help drive the mill, which was not built till after 1820. 
He was engaged in agriculture, in 1820. His house was near 
the Willow bridge. 

11. Zelotes Olney lived near the center of lot 501 j noith of the 
■turnpike, and east of the road that leads up Trout run. He was 
taxedi'in the Brown's Settlement road district in 1798 to work 
three days, but probably he then lived below, the south line of 
Richford. His name was also, in the tax list of i8o2> He had 
children — Oman, John; Samuel, No, 31 and others. 

Benjamin Olney was assessed in the Brown's Settlement high- 
way district in 1798, to work three days, but he probably left 
soon after, as his name is not in the tax list for 1802. His relation 
to Zelotes Olney is not known. 

12. Elisha Briggs, a physician, lived north of the turnpike on 
the east end of lot 501, where the name of S. B. Allen is on the 
atlas. 

13. Caleb Arnold lived on the turnpike, on lot 500. He was a 
' blacksmith, and built there the first mills in Richford. His saw- 
mill, in 1820, was rated at forty thousand feet per year. His 
grist-mill does not appear in the census, and possibly had already 
gone out of use, for it is said that it required so much power that 
he fitted a crank to the bolt so as to turn that by hand. His mills 
were on the West Owego creek,, and have since been known as 
the Robinson mills. Mr. C. J. Robinson says: " He erected a 
shop and machinery for the manufacture of cut nails, about the 
first of nail: manufacturing in this country." He was recorded 
as engaged in manufacturing. He sometimes framed his own 
buildings, using a post-axe for beating out the mortises. 

14. Jacob Roads lived on the turnpil^e northeast of Padlocjk, 
and on the southwest quarter of lot 498, where the atlas bears 
the name of J. Brooks. He was an Englishman, a mason, a 
quarryman, apd is noted as engaged in manufactures. 

16. Wheeler Wood, a farmer, lived in one of the five log houses 



420 TOWN OF KICeFOKD. 



which composed the hamlet of Padlock; so named from t6efa«:6- 
that a padlock hung at each of the doors, and it is said that the 
were so careful, that if a woman went to the spring for a pail of 
water, she would lock the door, even if her husband was chop- 
ping wood in front of it ; but some stories are too good to be 
true. It is said that Henry Branch, of Newark Valley, was driv- 
ing along this road about 1870, when his horse broke through the 
covering of an old well, near the middle of the road, and had 
hard work to get out. The well was about twenty feet deep, and 
had gone wholly out of the memory of the people of that region. 

17. Elijah Gilbert kept a tavern on the corner west of the 
creek road, on lot 461, where the county atlas bears the name of 
J. T. Osborn. He also made rakes, bedsteads, etc. He proba- 
bly married with Betsc)' Watkins, and his sister, Sally Gilbert, 
married with John Watkins, of Newark Valley. They came from 
Partridgefield, now Peru, Mass., about 1812. Among their chil- 
dren : 

Levi, m with Betsey Watkins, and settled at Waverly, N. Y. 
Mary, m with James Lockhart Watson. 
Melinda, moved to one of the Western States. 

18. Amos Raymond ; 19. Daniel Raymond ; 20. William G. 
Raymond ; farmers, and perhaps brothers, all dwelt at or near 
the hamlet of Padlock. Their history has not been obtained. 

21. Russell Freeland lived on the hill road, on the south part 
of lot 421, near the southwest corner of the present town of 
Richford, and a short distance above the old Baptist meeting 
house, now in ruins, in the northwest corner of Berkshire. He 
was born in Blandford, Mass., about 1786, m about 1807, with 
Emily Cushman, who was born at Becket, Mass., about 1787, 
daughter of Jonah and Rachel (Whiting) Cushman, and sister of 
Marble Cushman, of Berkshire. After living in Blandford for 
twelve years, they moved to Berkshire, now Richford, where he 
died as early as 1837, of typhus fever In the house with him 
dwelt his widowed mother, one of his sisters, and his brother, 
Joseph Freeland. Their children were : 

I. Emerilla, b in Blandford, Mass. 

II. Lydia, married with Julius Smith, of Richford. 

III. Clarissa, b in Blandford, Mass. 

IV. Mary, b in Blandford, Mass., resides at Port Dickinson, 
N. Y. 

V. Russell, b at Richford in 1821 ; married 30 Jan., 1845, with 
Deborah Williams Smith, and they reside at Ouaquaga, N. Y. 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 42 1 



y 



VI. Vesta A., b at Richford, in 1826; married 6 May, 1850, 
with Deloss Tefft, of Edmeston, N. Y., and resides at Guilford,. 
N. Y., three miles east of Oxford. 

VII. Orin M., b at Richford, in 1829; married 11 Peb., 1857, 
with Jane A. Wilcox, daughter of Erastus and Laura Wilcox, of 
TuUy, N. Y., and resides in Colesville, N. Y. 

Joseph Freeland, who lived in the same house, and owned the- 
north part of the same lot, was born about 1790, and had wife, 
Lydia, who died 7 April, 1875, aged 88 years. He died i Aug., 
1879, aged 89 years. They were buried in the cemetery in the 
northwest corner of Berkshire. Among their children were two 
daughters, born before Dec, 1820. Lyman Freeland, of Newark 
Valley, and Squire D. Freeland, of Richford. • 

23. David Draper was a laborer, did not own a home, waS' 
often at the tavern, and sometimes did a day's work there, as.- 
early as December, 1817. Perhaps he hunted occasionally, as- 
there is evidence that he bought a pint of whiskey and a canis- 
ter of powder, 8 Sept., 1818. Another Draper, named Timothy, 
had the same habits, as early as 18 17, but was not named in the 
census, though the number of persohs enumerated in David's^ 
household, would indicate that Timothy, and his wife, too, may 
also have been members of it. Their h6use has not been identi- 
fied. 

24. Daniel Harrington lived on lot 460, east of the road, where 
Daniel Leach now lives. Reuben " Herinton," who may have 
been his father, was named in the Tioga tax-list of 1802. 

25. William Lynch lived on lot 460, where Lyman Jewett now 
liveSi 

26. Jesse Gleazen, 2d, lived in a log hcime, northeast of the 
road, on lot 422, where the heirs of W. J. Patch now own. He 
was son of Caleb Gleazen,and grandson of Joseph Gleazen. 

Caleb Gleazen, the father of Jesse Gleazen (2d), is said to have 
died on the hill west of where Mr. Heman Daniels now lives, 
but the date has not been found. He lived at different times, in 
various parts of the town, and sometimes Out of the town. He 
had, in the course of his life, three wives, and twenty-one children^ 
He was a soldier of the Revolution. He was assessed to work 
five and a half days on the highways, in Brown's Settlement, in 
1798. One of his children was born 23 Dec, 1808. 

27. Thomas P. Brown lived on the same road, on the N. E^ 
quarter of lot 422, where the atlas bears the letters W. J. P. He 
was born 13 Nov., 1784. He married with Polly Burghardt„ 



^22 TOWN. OF RICHFORD. 



daughter of Abraham and Lovisa (Rees) Burghardt. They 
joined the church at Berkshire, now Newark Valley, by letter, 2 
April, 1820, and were dismissed 12 Jan., 1823, to become constit- 
■uent members of. the church at Richford, which was formed 14 
Jan., 1823. He was elected a deacon of the new church. He 
.afterward moved to Maine, N. Y., and probably died there 21 
Feb., 1841, by church record, while his grave stone says 22 Feb., 
1 841. His family went to Wisconsin. They' may have had more 
•than the following children : 

I. Azubah, b 21 March, 1807.; d 17 Aug., 1835. 

II. Betsey, b 11 June, 1809; d 24 April, 1809. 

III. Betsey, bap 2 April, 1820. I.V. Sally, bap 2 April, 1820. 
V. Mary, bap 2 April, 1820. VI. Semantha, bap 3oSept., 1821. 

28. Jacob Burghardt, (son of Abraham, No. 30) lived on the 
same road, west side, on lot 423. He married with Polh' Gard- 
ner, daughter of William and Polly (Gaston) Gardner, of Berk- 
shire. They had a child born 22 June, 1821. 

29. Isaac Burghardt (son of Abraham No. 30) lived on the east 
side of same road, a short distance from hiis brother Jacob Burg- 
hardt. He had a child born 8 Jan., 1821. 

30. .Abraham Burghardt, Sen., lived on the east side of the 
same road, on lot 223, (and with him dwelt his son John Burg- 
-hardt, who died in 1886, having lived with his wife sixt}' years 
lacking two months). He married with Lovisa Rees, (who was 
.a sister of Caroline Rees, the wife of Deacon Nathaniel Ford, of 
Berkshire). She joined the church at Berkshire, now Newark 
Valley, by letter, 6 June, 1813, and was dismissed with eight 
■others, 12 Jan., 1823, to form the church at Richford. Their chil- 
dren were : 

Abraham, No. 32. Isaac, No. 29. Jacob, No. 28. 

John Rees, m with Achsah Gardner. 

Polly, wife of No. 27. Caroline, wife of No. ,31. 

31. Samuel Olney lived near the same road, out in the lot 
between Isaac Burghardt and Abraham Burghardt, Sen. Soon 
.after 1820 he moved to Richford village, and afterward went West. 

He m with Caroline Burghardt, daughter of Abraham and Folly 
j(Rees) Burghardt. Before her marriage she joined the church 
of Berkshire, now Newark Valley, by letter, 6 June, 1813, and 
was dismissed 12 Jan., 1823, with eight others, to organize a new 
<:hurch at Richford. Samuel Olney was a son of Zelotes Olney, 
2^^o. II. His children were : 

I. Sally Lovisa, bap 6 July, 1817. 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 423 



II. Franklin, bap i Nov., 1820. III. , born 8 Jan., 1822. 

32. Abraham Burghardt, Jr., a son of Abraham and Lovisa 
(Rees) Burghardt, lived on the south part of lot 423, near the 
south line of the town, where E. T. Walker now owns. He mar- 
ried with Mary Watson, daughter of John and Susanna (Smith) 
Watson, and moved to LTnadilla, Michigan. One of their chil- 
dren was born 3 Oct., 1821, and they had two at least before 
that. 

33. Martha Tracy lived east of the road, on lot 421, the south- 
west corner lot in the town. She was the widow of James Tracy, 
and the daughter of Nathaniel and Sarah Blackman. Afterward 
she lived where Dea. Green Raymond has lived, in Caroline. 

The six names which follow, were taken in connection with 
the census of Lisle, and were, of course in the eastern part of the 
town, on the border of Lisle. 

40. Thomas Tracy, lived on the south side of the turnpike, near 
the north line of lot 470, where Ralph P. Smith now lives. He 
was, probably a son of Ebenezer and Eleqta Tracy, of Lisle, N. Y. 
He was in the neighborhood of Brown's settlement as early as 
1803. 

41. Ezra Howland. His place of residence has not been ascer- 
tained. 

42. Abraham Dudley was probably the same who was a con- 
stituent member of the Richford Church, as Abraham N. Dudley. 
His residence has not been ascertained. 

43. Solomon Russel. His dwelling place has not been ascer- 
tained. 

44. Thomas Robinson, a maker of buckskin gloves and mittens,who 
afterward lived in Richford, and Newark Valley. He kept a 
public house on the turnpike, where Timothy Holcomb now lives. 
His full name was Thomas Amsdell Robinson. He was born at 
Concord, Mass., 26 Feb., 1787, son of Keen and Achsah (Leathe) 
Robinson. He m 15 March, 1812, with Juliet Cole, who died at 
Moravia, N. Y., 5 April, 1843. He m (2d) with Polly Hutchin- 
son, widow of his brother Jedediah Leathe Robinson. He died 
at Newark Valley, 17 Oct., 1874. His widow died there, 18 Feb., 
1879. He had nine children. 

45. Alexander S. Lamb, seems to have had no family in 1820; 
and his place of residence has not been ascertained, -^ 

21. Thomas Keeny lived near the' centre of 101339, where A, 
H. Ford has since lived. 

Ezekiel Rich was born at Cherry Valley, N. Y., 14 Aug., 1783 ; 

28* 



424 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



son of Simeon and Lucy (Lincoln) Rich ; m with Caroline Slos- 
son, who was born at Stockbridge, Mass., 23 Feb., 1791, daughter 
of Ezbon and Electa (Williams) Slosson. They dwelt on lot 103, 
in Newark Valley, till 3 April, 1821, when, having traded places 
with Beriah Wells, he moved to the present site of Richford vil- 
lage, and continued there his business of manufacturing buckskin 
goods, trading and farming, to which he added that of tavern 
keeping. He built the hotel building, and by his enterprise did 
much to build up that part of the town of Berkshire, which, fin- 
ally, on becoming a separate town wa^s named in his honor. He 
died 18 April, 1854. She joined the Congregational church of 
Newark Valley, 2 April, 1820, was dismissed 12 Jan., 1823, to 
become one of the constituent members of the Congregational 
church of Richford, 21 Jan., 1823 ; and died. Children : 
L Mary Ann, b 14 April, 1813 ; died 26 Dec, 1847. 

II. Chauncey Leroy, b 29 Jan., 181 5 ; a merchant ; still lives at 
Richford, having been a director and trasurer of the Southern 
Central Railroad Company from its formation to the permanent 
lease of its road in 1887. 

III. Angeline Eliza, b 23 Nov., 1816; m with Lewis Halsey 
Kellogg, a physician, who died at Owatonna, Minn., 9 Oct., 1873. 
She died at Rochester, Minn., 10 Nov., 1857. 

IV. Lucien Densmore, b 21 Sept., 1818; and still lives at 
Richford. 

V. William Dunham, b 25 Dec, 1820; died 3 Jan., 1821. 

VI. Maria Louisa, b 2 Sept., 1828; m with John More Benja- 
min, and settled at Painesville, Ohio. He has been sheriff of 
Lake countj' for two terms. 

William Dunham was born 20 March, 1787, son of Isaac and 
Charlotte (Lawrence) Dunham, and grandson of Jonas and Try- 
phena(Lawrence) Lawrence. He began life as a "commercial 
traveler," or peddler, employed by Ezekiel Rich. Coming home 
in April, 1821, from one of his journeys, and finding that his 
employer had moved ten miles further up the valley, he followed 
the trail, and spent his life in Richford, passed in trade and manu- 
facturing. He moved to New York with his sons, and died 16 
July, 1855. He married, in Oct., 1822, with Matilda Slosson, 
who was born 30 May, 1804, daughter of Enos and Rebecca 
(Culver) Slosson, She died in New York cit)^ about 1873. Chil- 
dren : 

I. William S., b 22 Aug., 1825. 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 425 



II. Matilda Orcelia, b 19 July, 1828. III. Robert H., (twin) b 
29 June, 1832. 

IV. Isaac S., (twin) b 29 June, 1832, died the same day. 

John Stedman, married with Sylvia Catlin. They moved from 
Durham, Greene Co., N. Y., to Newark Valley, where she joined 
the church, 3 Aug., 1820, having had all of her eight children, 
except the eldest, baptized 3 July, 1820. At the census of 1820, 
they dwelt where Washington A. and James T. Noble now live, 
and moved in June, 1 821, to Richford, where she was a constituent 
member of the church, 1823, having been dismissed from Newark 
Valley, 12 Jan., 1823. Their children were: 

I. Sophronia, m with Aaron Jacobs. 

II. Almira, m with Obadiah Livermore. 

III. Eliza, m with Seth Torry. 

IV. John Catlin, bat Durham, N. Y., 23 Jan., 1806; m with 
Julia Ann Slosson, daughter of Enos and Rebecca (Culver) 
Slosson. She died at Unadilla, Mich., i Aug., 1866. 

V. Sarah, m with Simeon Rich GrifSn. 

VI. Mary, m with Reuben Watson. 

VII. Sylvia, m 3 July, 1836, with Nelson Norton. 

VIII. Anna, m with Hemingway. 

Children of John Catlin and Julia Ann (Slosson) Stedman: 

I. Susan Rebecca, b 2 March, 1829; died at Unadilla, Mich., 
15 Oct., 1851. 

II. Sylvia Maria, b 25 Oct., 1830; m with A. B. Wood, and 
settled at Owosso, Mich. 

III. Enos Slosson, b 20 March, 1834; a lawyer; was first- 
sergeant in 26th Reg. Mich. Vol. Infantry, was captured at 
Petersburgh, Va., 16 Aug., 1864; and died in prison at Salisbury, 
N. C, 12 Dec, 1864, and was buried there. 

IV. Ulysses, b 11 April, 1836, settled at Chattanooga, Tenn. 

V. John Obadiah, b 17 Jan., 1838 ; settled at Unadilla, Mich. 
William Tremble Jayne, b at Florida, in Warwick, Orange Co., 

N. Y., 21 Oct., 1782; son of Samuel and Lydia (Karscadden) 
Jayne; m there 16 Oct., 1802, with Jane Armstrong, who was 
born there 27 Feb., 1784, daughter of Francis and Patience 
(Rowley) Armstrong. In Nov., 18 19, they moved to Newark 
Valley, and settled on the north half of lot- 19, previously owned 
by John Bement. This place he sold in Feb., 1 821, to his brother- 
iti law Francis Armstrong, and lived in the small house on the 
hill side,. east of the road till, 1825, when they moved to Richford, 



426 TOWN OF RICHFORD; 



where he died 24 Nov., 1850. His widow married (2d) with Dea. 
Joseph Abbott Beecher. His children were : 

I. Caroline, b 6 July, 1803 ; ra with Frederiek S. Dean, and died 
at her father's house, 13 April, 1827. 

II. Frances, b 14 Jan., 1806; m with Jacob Conklin, 20 Jan., 
1831, as his second wife. ' 

III. Mary Ann, b 3 Aug., 1809, and died the 19 Aug., 181 1. 

IV. Amzi Lewis, b 29 Oct., 181 1 , m 12 March, 1833, with 
Charlotte Clark Robinson, daughter of Thomas Amsdell Rob- 
inson. 

V. Samuel Armstrong, b 6 Nov., 1814 ; m 31 Oct., 1838, with 
Laura Rich, who died without children. He married again. 

VI. William Tremble, b 20 Nov., 1816; went West about .1837, 
was at Mobile, Ala., two years later, about to go to Vicksburgh, 
Miss., since which his friends have not heard from him. 

VII. Mary Pitney, b at Newark Valley, 6 April, 1820 ; died at 
Richford, 11 Nov., 1835. 

This completes the history furnished by Mr. Patterson, and we 
add the following pages of matter gleaned from Mr. Robinson, 
and other sources. 

Additional Settlements. — Dr. Elijah Powell came from Che- 
nango'county, N. Y., and took up his residence in the embryo 
village in 1823, beginning practice as a physician and also acting 
as surgeon in the new settlement. The young doctor, twenty- 
three years of age, soon acquired an extensive practice and rose 
to eminence in his profession, which he adorned until old age 
exempted him from duties he had assiduously performed. On 
the 4th of July, 1826, the Doctor delivered the address at the 
first Fourth of July celebration held in Richford. In 1824, he 
erected the brick building, now occupied as a store by H. Row- 
ley, for his office and drug-store. Two years later, he built the 
large brick building on the corner, connected with the office 
building, the larger one being designed for a dwelling, store and 
offices. Socially, Doctor Powell was a kind, affable, sympathetic 
man, generous to a fault, ever ready to respond when called to 
visit the sick, whatever were the circumstances or conditions of 
those who needed medical treatment. As a Christian, he was a 
devoted follower of Him who gave Himself a sacrifice for man- 
kind. He ever took a zealous interest in schools and educational 
matters, and he was the first county school commissioner in and 
for the county of Tioga. Originally, these commissioners were 
appointed, but the- law was changed so that they were and are 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 427 

elected, and the Doctor was elected the first after serving- the 
appointed term. He was unmarried when he became a resident 
of Richford, and took for his wife a belle of the place, Miss Lydia 
Wells, who died of consumption, July 18, 1833. A few years 
later he married his second wife, Miss Jane Anderson, of New 
York city, by whom he had two' sons and five daughters. At 
length he became worn out by hard service, for a large amount 
of which he received no pecuniary reward. He seldom dunned, 
never distressed his debtors, whose numbers exceeded, perhaps, 
one half the population of the town. After a lingering sickness, 
he died, January 12, 1876, aged seventy-three years, and was 
buried in accordance with the rites of Free Masons, to which order 
he had been a worthy member during nearly, if n(»t all, of his 
majority. 

Peter Perry, one of the early settlers in the western part of 
Richford, came here, from Massachusetts, and made the first set- 
tlement on the farm now owned by Edwin A. Perry. He mar- 
ried Jane Surdam, and reared five children, Norman, Eleanor, 
Luther, Jane, and Guerdon. Luther came here with his father, mar- 
ried Maria, daughter of Joseph Quimby, and reared nine children, 
four of whom are living, namely, Alonzo, Frank, Daniel M. and 
Edwin A. He was a distiller by trade, and for a long time run 
a distillery, the first in town, on the farm now owned by Orrin 
Walker. Mr. Perry died in July, 1866, aged sixty-one years. 

Elijah Gilbert was also an early settler in this part of the town. 
Mr. Gilbert had some trouble with his neighbors, and locked his 
water-trough with a padlock, according to one version, since 
which time this locality has been known as Padlock. 

Isaac C. Smith came from Hamden, in 1823. He married Sally 
Pryor, and reared eight children, viz.: Julius C, Jonas P., 
Franklin H., Polly M., Estella C, Ralph P., WiUiam W. and 
Sarah. Of these only two are living, Julius C. and Ralph P. 
The latter has married three times, first, Fidelia Smith, second, 
Lucy A., daughter of William Cross, who bore him three chil- 
dren,, Edward, deceased, May E. and Maud W-, deceased, and 
third, Mrs. Elizabeth Speed, of Caroline. 

Horace Goodrich was born in Durham, Conn., May 6, 1787, 
married Eleanor, daughter of Ichabod Scranton, of Durham, and 
located here about 1820. He made the first settlement on the 
farm now owned by Daniel Leach, but after living there a 
few years, he found that he was not upon the tract of land that 
his title called for, and he was obliged to leave it. He moved to 



428 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Newark Valley, where he died in 1829. He reared six children, 
namely: Dwight, Horace B., Guernsey S., Jerusha C, William 
S. and Emeline M. Of these, only three are living, William S.j 
Jerusha, widow of Benjamin Krum, and Emeline M. (Mrs. Bos- 
twick Brigham). 

Lemuel D. PoUey was born in Massachusetts, and moved to 
Dryden when a small boy. He married Polly Smith, of that 
town, and came to Richford in the spring of 1825. He made the 
first settlement on the farm now owned by Solomon Policy. 

Jabez Ayres was born in Sussex county, N. J., and made the 
first settlement on the farm owned by William Wright, about 
1825. 

James Brigham was born in Brookfield, Mass.,' married Mar- 
cia Hastings, and made the first settlement on land now owned 
by Benjamin Thomas. He reared a family of nine children, five 
of whom are living, namely, Lucia, widow of Henry Branch, of 
Berkshire, Laura and Bostwick, both of this town, Alfred, of 
Schuyler, Neb., and Elizabeth, wife of Edward Gilbert, of Brook- 
field, Mass. Bostwick married Emeline, daughter of Horace 
Goodrich, and has three children, Marcia. wife of George Bar- 
ber, of Newark Valley, Emma, wife of Charles Dickerson, of 
Cardiff, and Charles, who lives at home. 

John Hamilton, son of Eliakim, came from West Stockbridge, 
Mass., in 1835.. and made the first settlement on the farm where 
Mrs. Catherine Decker now lives. 

Dioclesian 'Sears was born in Lenox, Mass., and came here in 
1832, locating on the place where his son, James M., now lives. 
Philip Sears came at the same time, and settled on the next place 
east. 

Hotchkiss T. Finch was bOrn in Windham, N. Y., May 12, 
1831, and came here with his father, in 1841. In 1850, he pur- 
chased the saw-mill on the farm now owned by Delia Vincent, 
which he run. until 1862, when he went to Lisle, and bought the 
Lisle flouring and saw-mills. He sold them the same year, came 
back to Richford in 1866, and in 1870, the firm of H. S. & J. W. 
Finch was organized. He married Charlotte E., daughter of 
Robert Ketchum, of Lisle, and has one son, Charles R. In 1875, 
he, with Ketchum & Co., purchased the store of C. D. & G. L. 
Rich, and the firm of Finch, Ketchum & Co., was organized. 
Charles R. was born in this town, November 22, 1866, married 
Katie, daughter of W. Dwight Hull, of Owego, and is engaged 
in farming. 



TOWN OF RIGHFORD. 429 



Much of the eastern part of the town has been settled only 4 
few years. Among those who made the first settlements were 
Ithiel Burleigh, who located on the place where G. C. Tubbs 
now lives, Anson Stanley, on the place where he now resides, 
Robert Tubbs, Augustus Hill, James Satterly and William B. 
Satterly. Mr. Burleigh remained on his place only three years, 
when the place was abandoned, and G. C. Tubbs purchased the 
property, in 1846, and began clearing the land. 

What may serve to give readers an idea of the town's progress 
in growth is a knowledge of the dates of the formation of the 
school districts. There are fourteen districts, five of which are 
joint districts, and there are eleven school-houses in the town. 
Prior to 1819, no district was defined by metes or boiinds, but a 
school had been kept at "Padlock" several terms, which was 
attended by the few children whose homes were situated on or 
near the turnpike, at points between the Owego creeks, and up 
as far as Willow bridge. Down to 1832, all of the territory lying 
east of the East Owego creek in the town of Berkshire, and north 
of the subsequent line between Berkshire and Richford, com- 
prised one district, in area about one-half of the town. Jugt prior 
to the time Richford was set off from Berkshire, school district 
No. 10, of Lisle, was altered so as to take in six lots lying in 
Richford. When the town was divided,. there were seven dis- 
tricts, including the joint ones. 

The comparative growth of the town may be seen by the fol- 
lowing citation from the several census enumerations since the 
town was organized : 1835,882; 1845,1,093; 1850,1,208; 1855, 
1,182; 1860,1,404; 1865,1,283; 1870, 1,434; 1875, 1,451; 1880, 

»,477- 

Organization. — The town of Richford was formed from Berk- 
shire, first as the town of Arlington, April 9, 1831 ; its name being 
changed by act of legislature April 9, 1832. The town was duly 
organized, at the first town meeting, held at the Rich hotel, on 
Tuesday, March 6, 1832, when civil officers were duly elected, as 
follows: William Dunham, supervisor ; John C. Steadraan, town 
clerk; William Belden, Hubbard F. Wells, and Heman Daniels, 
commissioners of highways; Jacob Burget, Elijah Powell, and 
Tower Whiting, commissioners of common schools ; Simeon R. 
Griffin, Israel Wells, and Edward W. Surdam, school inspectors; 
Nathaniel Johnson and William Raymond, overseers of the poor; 
Obadiah Livermore, collector; Hiram W. Tyler and Henry Tal- 
mage, constables ; Seth B. Torrey, sealer of weights and meas- 



430 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



ures ; Piatt F. Grow, Eri Osburn, and David C. Garrison, 
justices of the peace. The said meeting took further action, to 
wit : 

" Voted, The town raise a sum of money equal to that drawn 
from the treasury. 

" Voted, That we pay th'e Inspectors of Common Schools seven- 
tj'-five cents per day, as compensation for their services. 

" Voted, That hogs may be commoners by being rung suffi- 
ciently ^and yoked with a sufficient yoke ; the yoke is to be twice 
the width of the neck above, and thirdth below. 

"Voted, That no cattle nor hogs be commoners at any season 
of the year within one-half mile of the village of Richford. 

" Voted, That O. L. Livermore be Poundmaster, and his yard 
be the Pound for the ensuing year. 

" Voted, This meeting be adjourned to the house now kept by 
S. M. Crandal, on the ist Tuesday in March, 1833." 

Material and Mercantile Interests. — The prominent industrial 
interest of the town is agriculture in its various branches, par- 
ticularly the dairy. The principal exports have been of live stock, 
hay, wool, pork and butter, chiefly the latter. No cereals are 
sent from the town, but recently the growing of potatoes for 
shipping has become a special industry. At present the resources 
of the farming community consists in potatoes, calves, and butter. 
Heretofore, lumbering in its various branches has been the most 
prominent pursuit in the eastern part of the town, a bus"iness that 
has died a natural death. The money paid for the lumber and 
bark has not materially enriched the town, not stopped therein, 
but been paid for merchandise brought from other parts, the 
locality serving simply as a camp. 

Ezekiel Rich was the first to open a store in Richford. He 
commenced trade in 1S21, and turned over the business to 
William Dunham, in 1823, who continued trade in the "Old 
Abby" until the corner brick building was completed, when he 
moved therein, about 1827. A few years later, Dunham vacated 
the brick store and opened a new store, situated on his experi- 
mental city plot, half-mile below, which went up with his vision- 
ary castle. While Mr. Dunham was yet trading in the Abbey, 
Gad Worthington erected a store about mid-way between C. L. 
Rich's residence and the public square. This was the first build- 
ing erected in Richford to be used exclusively as a store, and he 
put in a stock of goods and commenced trade in 1825. Later Mr. 
Cook purchased the store of Worthington, and continued trade a 
few J ears. 

About 1829, James Robins opened a store in the brick building 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 43 1 



vacated by Dunham, and his stock was of a greater variety and 
more complete than any store yet in the place. Robins con- 
tinued business in the brick store until the present Rich's store 
was erected, in 1834, when he removed and occupied the new- 
store, until 1844, when he sold to C. L. Rich and William Pier- 
son. During the period of Robins's trading, there was not much 
competition, but while Rich & Pierson were trading, S. R- 
GrifEn opened a store in the building now standing near the 
corner of the street leading to the depot. Later, he sold to Enoch 
Glezen, who occupied the store a few years, after which C. A. 
Clark, of Owego, opened the store, and later still Nathaniel 
Moore, of Berkshire, opened it and after trading a while sold .to 
W. H. Powell and M. Westcott, who wound up the competition, 
leaving the field to C. L. Rich and sons with J. H. Deming. 
Before Mr. Robins opened his store, Doctor Seaman erected the 
building now occupied by W. F. Miller and by C. H. Swift, for use 
as a store, and he put therein a stock of goods and continued 
trade several years ; and he run the only distillery ever put in 
operation here. In 1869, H. B. Rowle}^ opened a store in the 
brick store, where he is still trading. About 1880, James S. 
Smith opened a store in the Rich block, and in 18 — he sold his 
stock to W. C. Smith & Co. 

In 1870, H. Tane and T. Brainard opened the old Seaman 
store a hardware and house furnishing store, with stoves and 
articles used about the house, together with the manufacture of 
tin, copper and ironware. The firm did business about three 
years, then made a general assignment to C. J. Robinson, who 
continued the business about three years and then closed it out. 

In 1880, C. H. Swift opened a store and shop like that last 
mentioned, and in the same building, where he is still doing busi- 
ness. 

One of the most popular stores is that owned and conducted 
by Mrs. Delos Yaple, in the Rich block. She has been in trade 
twelve or more years, carrying on millinery business in connec- 
tion with her store. 

At an early day Joseph Bayette (a Frenchman) came in the 
eastern portion of the town, settled and built a log house and 
manufactured cigars, then removed to Ithaca, returned in 1850, 
and, in the large building fronting the square, again commenced 
the manufacture of cigars. He was succeeded by his sons, who 
increased the business and employed twenty-five hands. They 
were succeeded by George and Edward Rich, sons of Chauncey 



432 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Rich, and the business was continued until the spring of i?>7y, 
when it was discontinued. 

C. L. Rich, who commenced clerking for Mr. Robins, in 1834, 
has been chief of the mercantile tra.de in Richford. He retired 
from trade, to accept the office of treasurer of the Southern 
Central Railroad, of which he has been not only treasurer but 
also one of the leading directors and stockholders. He conducted 
the financial business of the road with so much ability that it re- 
mained in first hands m,uch longer than any other road in the 
state or elsewhere. Mr. Rich, his sons and brother-in-law, are 
bankers, the sons being at the head of a bank in Fort Dodge, 
Iowa, C. L. having retired from active business on the road and 
now lives at his home in Richford. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Richford Village is located in the southern-central part of 
the town, where the railroad crosses the old Catskill turnpike. 
It has one church, one hotel, two general stores, hardware store, 
furniture store, millinery and grocery store, a saw-mill and 
novelty works, grist-mill, two blacksmith shops, and about 250 
inhabitants. 

East Richford is a small settlement in the eastern part of 
the town. 

West Richford is a small settlement in the western part of 
the town. 

Prior to the establishment of a postoffice in Berkshire village, 
about 1824, the office nearest to Richford was at a point on the 
Creek road one and one half miles south of the boundary, be- 
tween Berkshire and Newark, eight miles distant from Richford. 
The Richford ppstoffice was established in 1830, with William 
Dunham postmaster. He kept the office in his dwelling, the 
"Old Abby," the first house erected in the village; afterward 
the office was removed into the brick store on the corner, and O. 
L. Livermore, officiated as deputy postmaster. Later, Simeon 
Crandal was appointed postmaster, and he removed the postoffice 
from the brick store into the Rich hotel, of which he was inn- 
keeper. Later still, C. L. Rich was appointed postmaster, and 
he removed the office from the hotel into the .store where, ex- 
cepting a few years (1862 to '66) the office has been kept to the 
present time. Mr. Rich was succeeded by J.'H. Deming, and 
at the next change in the administration, Mr. Rich was reap- 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 433 



pointed. Matthew Westcott was appointed later. In 1866, C. 
D. Rich was appointed, and later he resigned in favor of C. W. 
Finch. In 1886 C. A. Clark was appointed, and is the present 
incumbent. 

During a long period, the mails were carried by stages running 
on the turnpike, leading from Catskill to Ithaca, also on the road 
•from Homer to Owego. As the mail going east reached Cats- 
kill, it was transferred to steamboats plying on the Hudson, and 
would make the round trip via New York city in five days. The 
two-horse stage line from Homer to Richford was discontinued 
in 183-, and the four-horse stage line on the pike was discontinued 
at the time the New York and Erie railroad was opened as far as 
Owego, June i, 1849. -^ two-horse stage continued to tarry the 
mail from Lisle through Richford to Ithaca, during a few years, 
up to 1852. And a two-horse stage transmitted the mail daily 
from Richford to Owego and return, up to the opening of the 
Southern Central railroad. 

In 1852 a postoffice was established in the town, under the 
title of " West Richford Postoffice," Erie Osborn, postmaster. 
In i860, this office was discontinued. 

MANUFACTORIES. 

The history of mills in the town begins with the ones erected 
by Caleb Arnold; but the exact date cannot.be ascertained, 
though it was probably 1813. He had a saw and gristmill also wool- 
carding works, located on the West Owego creek, on lot 500. 
The saw-mill was rebuilt in 1835 ; the other mill, run down long 
before, and Mr. Arnold had left. The next saw and grist-mill 
was erected by Gad Worthington, on the East creek, at a point 
not far south of the depot, in 1823-24. A few years later, Wil- 
liam Dunham bought the mills, and allowed them to run down 
later. In 1831, Simeon R. Griffin erected agristmill some forty 
rods northwest of the junction of Aurora street with the old pike 
road. The motor power was water taken from, the brook, led 
onto a thirty foot over-shot wheel. The mill did a good business 
until 1840. After Griffin ran it a few years, he sold to Enoch 
Gleazen, who sold to Mr. Torrey, who let the mill go down. 
About, 1830, a Mr. Wells erected a saw-mill just north of the vil- 
lage. Later, Abram Deming became owner of, and rebuilt the 
mill, and after sawing millions of feet of pine lumber, sold to Elisha 
Hart, who sold in turn to William Cross ; and afterward Henry 



434 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Geer owned and repaired the mill, and later William Allen 
became owner, allowing it to go down. 

About 1830, William Pumpelly, of Owego, erected a saw-mill 
on his lands, two miles north of Richford village. Afterward 
the mill was owned by Milton Holcomb, John Gee, and finally got 
into Clinton Cleveland's hands, who rebuilt it, with a large circu- 
lar-saw, in place of the up-and-down saw. The mill is still in- 
running order. 

In 1850, Belden Brothers erected a saw-mill on their premises, 
some forty rods north of the highway bridge across the creek. 
The mill cut a vast quantity of lumber, and recently the supply 
of stock became exhausted, and the mill was abandoned. 

In 1850, a saw-mill was erected on the creek a little south of 
Harford Mills, in this town. Subsequently, a factory for manu- 
facturing sash, blinds and doors was erected beside the mill. 
The property is now owned by Mr. Granger. 

In 1853, William Andrews built a steam saw-mill on lot 493, 
two and one-half miles east of the village, on the old pike road. 
It was the first steam motor used in the town. The mill was a 
costly structure, and ample in its capacity, had it been fittingly 
arranged ; but only one sash-saw was put in operation. The 
manufacture of lumber, under the circumstances, could not be 
made a success, financially, and Mr. Andrews was forced to sac- 
rifice and return to Connecticut, his former home. The mill was 
not put to much usCj and some three years after its completion, 
it burned. A few years later, Jones & Hubbard erected a new 
steam-mill on this site, with a circular-saw ; but the business still 
met with poor success, and after a few years the mill burned. 

In the fall of 1870, Messrs. C. W. and H. S. Finch erected a 
steam saw-mill not far from the depot. A branch track is one of 
the appurtenances of the mill. The mill did an extensive business 
until September 12, 1871, when it took fire at midnight and 
burned, with all therein and about it. The owners at once 
rebuilt the mill, and again, October 31, 1879, ^^ noon, the mill took 
fire, making a clean sweep of all therein and adjacent. Again 
the same owners promptly rebuilt, and the mill is now in operation- 
This mill is an institution very elaborate in machinery, whereby 
huge forest trees are wrought into articles for use, from a rail- 
road bridge-beam one hundred feet in length, down to a cloths- 
pin ; and all kinds of lumber required for building is dressed 
complete in finish, ready to be nailed in place. The mill is of a 
capacity equal to sawing 25,000 feet of lumber per day, arid has 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 435 



been run nearly all the time since it started. This mill has been 
a success, financially. C. W. Finch runs the mill, and H. S. 
Finch, with J, Allen, are the lumber merchants. 

In 1876, Franklin Bliss erected a steam mill for grinding feed 
and threshing grain, about one-fourth mile west of the village. 
The same year H. S. Finch put in a mill for grinding feed, 
attached to his provision store, near the depot. In 1884, Mr. 
Bliss shut down his mill, and purchased the mill owned by Finch, 
and added one more run of stones, and other first-class machin- 
ery for manufacturing best quality of buckwheat-flour. In the 
fall of 1886, the mill took fire at noon, and burned. Nothing was 
saved pertaining to the mill, and a large stock of grain was lost. 
The mill was very promptly rebuilt and put in .operation, and 
Mr. Bliss is doing a good business, manufacturing buckwheat 
flour, and ships large quantities to Philadelphia and other mar- 
kets, besides grinding many car-loads of grain each year for the 
home market. 

The saw-mill of J. W. Allen, located, on road 18, is operated 
by water-power and. has the capacity for cutting i ,000,000 feet of 
lumber annually. The first mill built on this site was about 1830, 
by Milton Holcomb ; but has from time to time been rebuilt, and 
for a short time steam was used in the mill. It is equipped with 
lumber-saw, double lath-saw, planing and matching machines, 
and employs six men. 

CHURCHES. 

There are but three meeting-houses in the town; one of which 
is not utilized, or only opened occasionally. Of the three 
churches formed within the town, but one seems to hold out 
prosperously, the original first church, the nucleus of which were 
Puritans of the Mayflower lineage, from Massachusetts. The 
jchurch record fails, by reason of the imperfect manner it has 
been kept, to give a full or comprehensive history of the church 
from the first. Fortunately, there is one survivor, Deacon W. 
F. Belden, whose parents were of the few originators, and he has 
himself been a member during nearly three-score years, during 
which time he has kept a private record,, to which we are in- 
debted for much of the ecclesiastical history of the town. 

The first settlers in Richford were mostly families from Lenox, 
Mass., among whom was Stephen Wells, a deacon of the Pres- 
byterian church in Lenox, who commenced holding meetings in 



436 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



the new (first) school-house, in 1821. On December 4, 1821, the 
few inhabitants of Richford assembled in the school-bouse, in the 
evening, for the purpose of considering the subject of organizing 
a church society and the building of a meeting-house. At this 
meeting a society was duly formed, to be known as " The North 
Society of the Town of Berkshire." The meeting was a'djourned, 
to meet at the house (hotel) of Ezekiel Rich, one week later, and 
from week to week to meet at said house. Finally, the meeting 
took action by passing a resolution to build a meeting-house in 
the summer of 1822, at an expense of five hundred dollars, " and, 
if a steeple is put on, the cost of the structure not to exceed 
seven hundred dollars." The house was erected as per resolu- 
tion, and soon after, the Rev. Seth Burt, a missionary sent out by 
the Berkshire and Columbia (Mass). Missionary Society, becamee 
the pastor. On December 23, 1822, thirty-one of the inhabitants of 
Richford and vicinity banded themselves together as a society, 
entitled " The Society of Columbia," which title it still retains. 
On January 14, 1823, a Christian Church was duly organized, 
according to the order of Presbyterian faith, with forty-one char- 
ter members, of which twenty-two presented letters, and nine- 
teen made confession of faith. One of the most devoted of the 
charter members, Mrs. Ezekiel Rich, united with the old church 
of Berkshire (prior to the formation of Newark), the first Sab- 
bath in April, 1820, and in 1821, she removed from Newark Val- 
ley to Richford, where she presented a letter of membership. 
She was one who aided the organizing of the church, and the 
last of the forty-one to die — ever zealous, she was the last to leave 
the Richford church militant and join the church triumphant, on 
the 2d day of June, 1883, aged ninety-two years. 

The church was connected with the Cayuga presbytery. The 
first delegation of elders sent from Richford were Dea. S. Wells, 
Thomas P. Brown, and Deodatus Royce. The church contin- 
ued as a Presbyterian order until 1827, when the members unani- 
mously resolved to change and adopt the Congregational form of 
discipline, and duly appointed delegates to go and inquire into 
the standing of the " Union Association ;" also constituted dele- 
gates to attend a meeting of the presbytery for instructions, 
resolving to remain in the fold of the Presbytery on " the accom- 
modation plan." November 2, 1827, the elders tendered their 
resignation, and the church became Congregational' in form, but 
remained connected with the Presbytery until 1868, at which 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 437 



date, in October, the church connected itself with the Susque- 
hanna Association, there being no change since. 

In 1833, a church was formed in the town of Berkshire, as now 
bounded, and twelve of the members of the Richford church took 
letters to unite with the new organization at Berkshire village. 

The first church edifice was erected on the site now occupied. 
.The building was smaller in size than the last one built. Its style 
of architecture was Eastern, a steeple and bell, the latter still 
used. The front half of the steeple projected froiti the main edi- 
fice and rested on four large turned columns, having ornamental 
base and capitals. Internally, a gallery extended around on two 
sides and the rear end, forming a semi-circle, the central portion 
of which was occupied by the choir and a pulpit, t*ie back of 
which was the inner wall of the vestibule. On the main floor 
were two aisles, between which were two tiers of seats, and on 
one side of either aisle was a row of seats in square sections, or 
"'pe-ws." The best of pine lumber was used in constructing the 
meeting-house; because the Lord had placed the material near at 
.hand. His servants took it as His own, wherever found, without 
regard to the will of land-owners. In 1854, the old house was 
taken down and a new one of larger dimensions erected, and 
which has been rearranged internally and ornamented, with a dif- 
ferent style of steeple. The church-going people of early times 
here allude to the advent of " fire in meeting-houses." Furnaces 
and stoves were not then in use, and worshipers had to endure a 
severe ordeal when they attended meeting in winter; so after the 
stove came as a new blessing, warmth was a very grateful part 
of the meeting in cold weather. 

The whole number in communion with the church up to Feb- 
ruary, 1875, was 278; the number at that date was, present and 
absent, seventy-three. In 1874, twelve took letters and joined 
other churches. At times there have been handsome accessions 
to the church ; but death and emigration depleted the ranks to 
such an extent that augmentation permanently was scarcely pos- 
sible. 

Referring to the several pastors, Rev. Mr. Burt closed his term 
in 1825, leaving the church without a visable shepherd until 1827, 
when Rev. Henrj' Ford ministered one year. Rev. Mr. Gary 
occupied the pulpit a portion of the time up to 1829, at which 
date the Rev. David S. Morse became pastor, and continued such 
until April, 1833. Rev. Mr. Graves succeeded Mr. Morse, for a 
short period. In December, 1833, Rev. Mr. Ripley commenced 



438 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



preaching in the Richford church each alternate Sabbath, continu- 
ing up to April, 183 15, when Mr. Morse returned and continued 
until 1840. During 1841, Rev. Mr. McEwen occupied che pulpit, 
and Rev. Mr. Babbitt during 1842, who was not succeeded until 
1844, when Mr. Morse returned again, and continued paistor up to 
1S49. Then Mr. Page served from 1850 to 1851, when Rev. 
Jeremiah Woodruff officiated during a term of four years. In 1856, 
Rev. Mr. Worden, who was pastor of the Methodist church at 
Berkshire, occupied the pulpit here each alternate Sabbath In 
April, 1857, Rev. Richard Woodruff became pastor and served 
six years, less one month, when, after preaching three sermons one 
Sabbath, he died before morning, March 9, 1863, and was buried 
beside his wife in the cemetery at Richford. His age was sixty- 
two. In July, 1863, Rev. J. S. Hanna commenced a term of pas- 
toral service, continued one year, and the year following Rev. 
David Gibbs served as pastor. In the winter of 1866, Mr. Morse 
served six months, also a six months' term in the winter of 1867. 
His whole term of service was about eighteen years. He was 
born in 1793, died in 1871, and lies buried in Richford cemetery. 
Mr. Morse was a man of superior understanding. In July 1868, 
Rev. George Porter, from England, became pastor, and served 
two years, less six weeks. In July, 1870, Rev. Mr. Green took 
charge, and served until May, 1873. Another vacancy 4then 
occurred, extending to November, 1874, when Rev. Mr. Thomas 
commenced and served two years. Rev. E.W. Fisher commenced 
April I, 1878. The next pastor was A. D. Stowell, who com- 
menced in June, 1880, and who was succeeded by Rev. E. P. 
Dada, in May, 1882; Rev. George Miller, in September 1884, and 
Charles Burgen, the incumbent pastor, commenced service May 
I, 1887. The largest salary paid per year to any of the pastors 
employed was one thousand dollars, to Mr. Porter, for the first 
year. The Missionary Society has liberally contributed toward 
paying the salaries. 

In 1823 a Sabbath-school was established in which there were 
sixt3'-five attendants, who resided within a territory stretching 
nine miles east and west and seven miles from point to point, north 
and south. Many who attended, found their way through the forest 
by blazed trees. Here it is worthy of mention, in paying honor 
due to faithful Christians, that a certain widow, Mrs. Gardner, 
and her two daughters, who resided on lot4i8, on the border of 
the town of Berkshire, over two miles distant, were sure to be in 
attendance each Sabbath regardless of inclement weather. Their 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 439 



pathway to and from the meetings was over rugged, hilly 
ground, their course all the way marked only by blazed trees. 
The Sabbath-school has been well maintained to the present. 

Of the early settlers in the town, a few were Episcopalians, who 
organized a church, and erected a small house on the site where 
now stands C. L. Rich's barn. It was built about 1832, and was 
removed to Speeds ville, in 1843. No record of the proceedings 
■of the Episcopalians in the town is obtainable ; but memories 
relate some incidents. 

In 1857, a society was formed which was styled "The Rich 
ford Hill Christian Church," and in i860 they erected a house 
in which to worship according to their creed. They have a cleai 
title to a desirable rural site of ample dimensions, including e 
cemetery, in which are erected monuments, some of which art 
elaborate and costly. At one time the church numbered thirt3i 
or more members, but later it fell to zero ; yet later still, a rally 
occurred and it recuperated, and now they have a shepherd who 
occupies the pulpit regularly, in connection with a neighboring 
society. Rev. Mr. Tyler officiates as pastor. 

In 1864, a church society was duly organized in the eastern 
part of the town. Their creed was Baptist, and in 1870 thej 
completed a church edifice. The number of members have not 
exceeded twenty-three. A portion of the time of their existence 
the vital spark seemed to wane to a low ebb. At present they 
have a joint interest in a minister who resides at a distance. 



SPENCER* lies in the extreme north-western corner of the 
county, and is bounded north by the county line, east by 
Candor, south by Barton, and west by the county line. 
The town was formed by an act of the legislature passed February 
28, 1806, receiving its name in honor of Judge Ambrose Spencer. 
At this time, however, it was a town of great extent, set off from 
Owego (now Tioga). From this large territory have been formed 
the towns of Candor, Caroline, Danby and Newfield, the lattei 
three in Tompkins county, set off February 22, 181 1 ; and Cayuta, 
in Schuyler county, organized March 20, 1824. Thus Spencei 
may truly be said to be a " mother of towns ;" but these largf 



*For much of this sketch we are indebted to Mr. J. H. Palmer, of Spencer. 
29, 



440 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



concessions have shorn the parent town's territory to an area of 
only about 29,136 acres, 2Q,cqp acres of which is improved land. 
Topography. — The. north-eastern portion of the town forms the 
water-shed between the Susquehanna river and Cayuga lake. The 
ridges have a general north and south direction, their declivities- 
steep, and their summits broad and broken. Catatonk creek, 
flowing east, breaks through these ridges at nearly right angles, 
forming a deep and narrow valley. This is the principal stream, 
though there are numerous small tributaries to it. The soil is a 
gravelly loam in the valleys, and a hard, shaly loam upon the 
hills. Dairying, stock-raising,.and lumbering are the chief pur- 
suits of the people. 

SETTLEMENT AND GROWTIJ. 

Benjamin Drake, in connection with Joseph Barker, made the 
first settlement in the town of Spencer, in the year 1794. The 
place of his nativity is not known, and as none of his descendants 
are now living here, nothing of his early life,, previous to settle- 
ment here, can be ascertained. He settled on the site of Spencer 
village, or what was for many years the village, the lower cor- 
ners, as the north and west portions of the village have mostly 
been built up in comparatively , a few yea,rs. Mr. Drake's first 
cabin was built of logs, poles and bark, near the bank of Cata- 
tonk creek, half, or three-quarters of a mile east of the village. 
His time was occupied in clearing his land, and when, after the 
labors of the day were over, and the shades of night had 
gathered around the humble home of the settlers, and they had 
retired to rest, their sleep was often disturbed by the howling 
and snarling of the wild beasts that inhabited the wilderness- 
around them. Tradition says that Mr. Drake builtthe first frame 
dwelling-house in town, a part of which is standing on the spot 
where Andrew Purdy formerly resided, and known for many 
years as the " Purdy tavern," and now owned by the estate of 
Hon. Abram H. Miller. He also built the first grist-mill. How 
long he resided here, and the time or place of his death, is not 
known. His daughter, Deborah, was the first white child born 
within the present town limits. 

Joseph Barker, as stated above, came to Spencer in the year 
1794, from Wyoming, Pa. He settled on the place now owned 
by C. W. Bradley, a little north of the center of the village of 
Spencer, his land extending south of and including the old 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 44 1 



cemetery, which he partially cleared off and gave to the town as 
a public burial-place. At that early day there was no town 
organization, and consequently no town ofificers, common interests 
prompting the settlers to friendliness and a general effort to build 
up good society, and also to extend a cordial greeting and wel- 
come to those who came to settle and make a home among them, 
But as their numbers increased, the necessity of forming such 
an organization became apparent, and it was effected in 1806, 
and the first town meeting was held April ist, of that year, Mr, 
Barker being elected justice of the peace, an ofifice he held till the 
election of Israel Hardy, in 1830. The first school was organ- 
ized in Mr. Barker's house, but the date is not known. Many ol 
his descendants are still living in this and adjoining towns. He 
was a man of strict integrity, and was respected and honored by 
all around him. 

Edmond and Rodney Hobart, brothers, came from Canaan, 
Litchfield county. Conn., in the year 1795. Edmond settled on 
the farm now owned and occupied by James B. Hull, his brother 
Rodney going about a mile farther north, where he resided for 
many years, the place now being owned by Benjamin F. Lewis, 
excepting about four acres where the house stands, that is now 
owned by Mr. E. Signer. Edmond Hobart is said to have put 
in and harvested the first crop of wheat, and he also built the 
first saw-mill. His family consisted of seven children, five boys 
and two girls, and their conveyance from Yankee land to Spencer 
was a wagon drawn by oxen, and they were seventeen' days on 
the road, making the third family in the town. Their oldest son, 
Prescott, while using the axe — the principal and most useful tool 
the settlers had^received a slight cut which terminated in lock- 
jaw, the first year they were here;, his death being the first one in 
town. Charlotte, the oldest daughter, married Daniel McQuigg, 
of Owego, who purchased the homestead of the heirs, in 1815, 
(Mr. Hobart died in 1808) and it was kept in the family many 
years, his son Daniel occupying it till about the year 1844, when 
it was sold lo Deacon James B. Hull, who now lives on it. Esther, 
the youngest daughter, married Horace Giles^of Owego, in 1814, 
and in a few months moved to Spencer, where the widow lived till 
her death, in -1832. Mr. and Mrs. Giles lived on the same farm 
for fifty-five years. He died December 16, and she, December 
18, 1870, aged eighty and seventy-seven years, respectively. Two 
daughters and one son are now living, one, Charlotte Giles 
Converse, occupying the homestead. 



442 TOWN OF SPENGER. 



Others came soon after the settlement was begun, but the ex- 
act date cannot now be ascertained. John and George K. Hall, 
from Westchester county, N. Y., came about 1798, and settled 
on a part of what for many years has been known as the John 
McQuigg farm. Soon after the year 1800, the arrivals' became 
more frequent. Among them may be named the following: 
Joshua Ferris, from Westchester, Doctor Holmes, from Connect- 
icut, and Stephen Bidlack, from Wyoming, in 1800 ; Henry 
Miller, Andrew Purdy, Thomas Mosher, C. Valentine, John and 
Leonard Jones, David and Richard Ferris, from Westchester 
county, N. Y., and George Watson, from Canaan, Conn., between 
that date and 1805; Truman, Joshua, Abram and Benjamin 
Cowell, brothers, came from Connecticut about 1807 or 1808; 
George Fisher and family, from Albany, N. Y., in 1810; Thomas 
Fisher and family came soon after, and settled in what has long 
been known as Fisher's Settlement, his wife being the first per- 
son to drive a horse from the settlement (now the village), 
through the woods to their home ; Solomon Mead, Joseph 
•Cowles, Alvin Benton, Thomas Andrews, H. Lotze, Joel Smith, 
Benjamin Jennings, Moses Reed, Levi Slater, Ezekiel Palmer 
and his son, Urban Palmer, came prior to 181 5 ; Shubael Palmer 
and wife, with a family of six children,, came in February, 1817, 
bringing both family and goods by oxen through woods and 
over hills, with roads such as is usually found at that time of the 
year. The next few years arrivals were numerous, and among 
them may be found the names of Dodd, Lake, Lott, Dean, Garey, 
French, Sackett, Riker, Vose, Harris, Bradley, Wells, Benton, 
Nichols, Adams, Casterline, Scofield, Swartwood and Butts. 

Isaac, William and Daniel Hugg, brothers, came from Canaan, 
Conn., the first two in 1800, and Daniel four years later, and set- 
tled in that part of the town known for many years as Hugg 
Town, now called North Spencer. Isaac settled at the head of 
the pond, his land extending to the road leading from Spencer to 
Ithaca; but built his house and resided till his death, in 1837, 
where Horace Furman now lives. This family consisted of eleven 
children, six girls and five boys. The youngest daughter, Sophia, 
is still living, and is in good health for one who has seen eighty- 
four years. 

William Hugg settled on the farm afterwards occupied by his 
brother, Daniel. His family consisted of twelve children, eight 
daughters and four sons, none of whom are now living. He only 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 443 



resided here three or four years, moving to West Dauby, where 
he and his wife were both buried. 

Daniel Hugg arrived in Spencer, in 1804, and settled on the 
farm previously occupied by his brother, William, where Frank 
Adams now lives, and resided there till the death of his wife, in 
1849, after which he lived with his children till his death, in 
1855, having been a resident of Spencer for fifty-one years. His 
family of six daughters and one son are all dead. At the organs 
ization of the First Congregational church, Daniel Hugg and 
Achsah Hugg, his wife, were two of the original members, and 
he was one of the first deacons, a title he retained till his death. 
The descendants of these three brothers can be counted by the 
score, and are not only to be found in Spencer and Surrounding 
towns, but in several different States of the Union, and as far as 
known are honored and respected membei-s of the communities 
in which they reside. 

Rev. Phineas Spalding was born in Woodstock, Vermont, in 
1759. While a mere boy he enlisted in the revolution, was pres- 
ent at the surrender of Burgoyne, saw him deliver his sword to 
his captors, and was one of the guard placed over the prisoners 
taken at that time. Afterwards, in the darkest hours of that terrible 
struggle, he joined that portion of the army with Washington, 
late in the autumn of 1777, and when the inclemency of the 
weather rendered it necessary togo into permanent winter quarters 
they marched for eight days, leaving marks from their bleeding 
feet upon the frozen ground, till they came to Valley Forge, where 
they spent the winter. Their cabins were made with the boughs 
of trees hung on sticks or poles, under which they would build 
their fires, and gather around them, poorly clothed, and many 
without blankets, coats or shoes, and often obliged to feed on 
horse meat, which, in consequence of their extreme hunger, 
seemed to taste sweeter than any meat they had ever eaten before. 
After leaving the army he married a Miss Rebecca Jacques, by 
whom he had three children, Rebecca, Phineas, and Polly, the 
latter of whom was only a few weeks old when Mrs. Spaulding 
died. After marrying again (Miss Susanna Hotchkiss), he re- 
moved to Whitehall, N. Y., where Nancy, Amy, and William 
were born. About 1796, he came to what was then called Tioga 
Point, and lived for one year on a place called the Shepard farm, 
during which time his son James was born. While living here, 
he came to Spencer and selected the place uponwhich he alter- 
Ward settled his family, in the year 1798! The place has been 



444 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



known for many years as the John McQuigg place. Here, in 
the woods, the sturdy pioneer erected his log cabin, cleared his 
land, and made him elf and family a home, and soon had the sat- 
isfaction of seeing the growing crops, and also neighbors settling 
around him. Here three more children were added to Mr. Spal- 
ding's family, viz.: Susanna, Jesse, and Joseph. As neighbors 
increased,and he being the only male professor of religion in the 
town, he was impressed that duty called him tp preach the gospel to 
those around him,andyieldiiig to these convictions, he preached, 
in his own house, the first gospel sermon in the town, in 1799. At the 
organization of the Baptist church, in 1810, he was chosen deacon, 
licensed to preach, and in 1813, was ordained, and was for many 
years pastor of the church. Previous to this he removed to a 
farm about two miles south of West Danby, where he lived several 
years, and here Ebenezer and Betsey were born. Mrs. Spalding 
died there in 1832, after which he lived with his children. He 
died in 1838, aged seventy-nine years, at the residence of his 
daughter Amy (Mrs. Barker), at West Danby, and his remains 
repose in the old cemetery in Spencer. Three of his children are 
still living, Mrs. Amy Barker, at West Danby, N. Y., aged ninety- 
four years; Ebenezer, in Wisconsin, aged seventy-nine, years; 
and Mrs. Betsey Cowell, at North Spencer, aged seventy-seven 
years. Those who have died lived most of them to be old, and 
were useful and honored citizens. Phineas died at Havanna, 
aged eighty-six years. Polly, the next oldest child, was married 
to John Underwood, and this was the first marriage in town. Slie 
died in Spencer, aged seventy-five years. Nancy moved to Ohio 
at an early day, and died in 1838. James died at West Danby. 
Joseph died in Washington, and William, where he had lived for 
many years, at Mottville, aged eighty -two years. 

Stephen Bidlack, son of James, came to Spencer, from Athens 
in 1800, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned by 
Ransom Bidlack. He married Lois, daughter of Capt. Samuel 
Ransom, and reared eight children, only one of whom. Ransom, 
is living. 

Richard Ferris came from Peekskill, in 1805, and located on land 
now owned by Elmer Garrott. He reared a family of nine chil- 
dren, only one of whom, Mary, is living. The latter was born 
March 22, 1787, and has lived here since shfe was eighteen years 
of age. She is the widow of John Fonsyth . who was a pensioner 
of the war of i8l2 . 

Truman Cowell, one of the early settlers, came from Coxsackie, 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 445 



about 1806, and made the first settlement on the farm now owned 
by Edward Co well. He had born to him two sons and eight 
daughters, viz.: Nathan, James, Naomi, Eunide, Anna, Roxy, 
Polly, Rhoda, Delia, and Harriet. 

Nathaniel Scofield, an early settler, locaited on the. farm now 
■owned by Luther Blivin, about 1806. His son Horace married 
Naomi Cowell, and six children were born to them, as follows : 
Betsey M., Nathaniel, Mary A., Truman, Roxanna and Horace. 

William Loring, son of Abel, was born in Barre, Mass., 
November 18, 1780, and moved from there to Granville, N. Y., 
when quite yourig; ' He married Hannah, daughter of Theophilus 
Tracy, of Norwich, Conn.,' October 8, 1808, and nine children 
were born to them, viz.: Horace, William T., Luceiia, Wealthy, 
Susan, Sarah, Louisa, Mary, and Harriet. Mr. Loring located 
in this town in February, 181 1. Lucena Loring married James 
B. Hull, and has one son, Loring W. 

Arthur Fririk was one of the early settlers here, and located on 
the farm now owned by William Ransom. 

Peter Signor came from Greenville, N. Y., in March, 1812, and 
purchased the farm which was settled by Bartley Roots, in 1810, 
. and which is now owned by Albert Signor. He married Lorena, 
•daughter of Adonijah Roots, and had bom to him, three children, 
Albert, Adonijah, and Anna:, widow of Jehvel House, of Danby. 
Albert was born in Greenville, May 12, 1803, married Anna, 
daughter of Levi English, and has two children, Adonijah and 
Mary A. (Mrs. Ira Patchen), of Danby. In 1834 he purchased 
the farm whe!re he now lives, which was then a wilderness, with 
no building except an old saw-mill, built a few years pt'evious, and 
which he has re-built, and has cut from 100,000 to 400,000 feet of 
lumber annually. 

One of the first settlers of what is known as the Dean Settle- 
ment, was Nicholas Dean, who came from Westchester county, 
in June, 1816, and built the first house on the place now owned 
by Mary Dej'O, in October, 18 17. Among other early settlers 
who came to this location were Elisha Sackett, from Peekskill, 
in 1820, locating where Jasper Patty now lives, John Williams, 
who settled on the farm now owned by George Pearson, and Eli 
Howell, who settled on the farm now owned by W. H. Fleming. 

Maj. Tunis Riker came from New York city, in 1817, and 
located on the farms now owned by O. P. Rikerand Antoinette 
Riker. He served as a major in the war of 181 2 . He Was a car- 
penter by trade, which occupation he followed here. He mar- 



446 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



f 



ried Eleanor Moore, of New York, and reared a family of twelve 
children. 

Edward Bingham came from Jay, Vt., about 1819, and located 
on the farm now owned by his grandson, I. A. Bingham. He 
served in the war of 1812. Ira. one of his twelve children, mar- 
ried Sally, daughter of Elisha Holdridge, and five children were 
born to him, viz.: Eliza, deceased, Sarah, Mary, 1. Augustus, and 
Seth H. 

Edward Hobart, an early settler, made the first settlement on 
the place now owned by James B. Hull. It is said that the first 
piece of wheat raised in the town was grown on this farm. 

Elisha Holdridge came from Bridge water, Pa., in the spring- 
of 1822, and purchased a farm, now owned by Dr. Norris, where 
he lived until 1837 or 1838, when he removed to Genoa. He 
married Mary Shaff, and reared nine children, only two of whom, 
Amos, of Spencer, and Samuel, of Hillsdale, Mich., are now liv- 
ing. Amos was born in Bridgewater, Pa., July 13, 1813, and was. 
nine years of age when he came here. He married Wealthy, 
daughter of William Loring, of Spencer, and has two children, 
Edgar P., of Cortland, and William A., who lives here. 

Lewis VanWoer t, son of Jacob, was born in Cambridge, N. Y., 
December 5, 1794: married Tabitha Gould, and settled here on 
the farm now owned by Lewis J. VanWoert, in 1827. He reared 
five children, namely, William G., Lewis J., Eleanor M., Lydia 
E., and Mehitable, deceased. 

John Brock came here in 1830, and purchased the farm now 
owned by William Lang. He was a farmer, and was also engaged' 
in droving until within two years of his death, which occurred in 
187^." He married Mary, daughter of A. Whitney, of Marj'land, 
N.(Y., and seven children were born to them, viz.: William, de- 
ceased, Ethiel, Ann E., wife of Seth Bingham, of Danby, John, 
Adaline, widow of Stockholm Barber, Thomas, and Dewitt C. 
•^ Benjamin Coggi n located here, on the farm now owned by his 
grandson, George E. Coggin, in 1832. He married Phebe Vose, 
and six children were born to him, as follows: John, Loama T., 
Albert, Rachel V., Mary V., and Eveline C. 

Solomon Davenport, son of Martin, was born at Port Jervis p 
lived in Caroline; N. Y., several years,- and located here, on the 
farm now owned by Mrs. Valentine, in 1836. He married Ann,' 
daughter of Samuel Snyder, of Caroline, and eight children were 
born to him, viz.: Henry, Sherman, Mary C, Jane A., Charlotte*.; 
Emma E., Sarah and Harriet A. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 447 



James Hagadorn came from Cherry Valley, in 1840, and set- 
tled on the farm now owned by his son David B. He married 
Lockey Genung, and five children were the fruits of this mar- 
riage, namely, Horace, who served as major in the late war, in 
Co. H, 3d N. y. Infantry, and was killed in front of Petersburg, 
June 15, 1865, Rebecca, wife of Henry C. Shaw, .Emma, wife 
of William Stone, of Curtis, Neb., Aaron, also of Curtis, and 
David B. 

Jacob T. Shaw was an early settler of Flemingville, and located 
here, in 1840, on the farm now owned by William A. Shaw. 

Alonzo Norris, son of Matthew N., who was an early settler of 
Erin, Chemung county, was born in Erin, October 2, 1833, stud- 
ied ittedicine with E. Howard Davis, of Horsehead*, for three 
years, and graduated from Jefferson Medical College, of Phila- 
delphia, Pa., March' 12, i860. He began practice at Halsey Val- 
ley, where he remained about a year, and then located in this 
town. He has two children, John N. and Olive K., both residing 
at home. 

Dr. Ezra W. Homiston was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., June 10, 
1859. ^^ studied in the public schools, and with his father, 
Joseph M., and graduated at the Bellevue Hospital College in 
March, 1883, and began practice in Brooklyn, In August, 1885, 
he came to Spencer, and has practiced here since. He married 
Adele Bumsted, of Jersey City, in 1882. 

Rev. Luther Bascom Pert, son of Thomas Pert, was born in 
this town October 12, 1819. When fifteen years of age, he left 
home to prep>are for college, at Cortland academy. He entered 
Hamilton College, and graduated, in the class of 1843. From 1849 
to 1869 he practiced law in New York city, and in April, 1870, 
he was licensed to preach by the third New York Presbytery 
and continued a faithful minister to the time of his death. He 
was pastor of the Presbyterian church at Raisin, Mich., from 1870 
to '74, at Londonderry, N. H., from 1874 to 'J<^. In 1843 he mar- 
ried Miss Ellen P Smith, of Spencer, by whom he had one daugh- 
ter, Helen M., wife of Rev. W. W. Newman, Jr., who are now 
living abroad. Mrs. Newman has three sons, viz.: George Ken- 
nedy, a student in Williams College, William Whiting, now of 
Colorado, and Oliver Shaw, who is traveling with his parents. 
Rev. Mr. Pert died at Bergen Point, N. J., May 29, 1881, and 
his remains were brought to the home of, his boyhood for inter- 
ment. 

Stephen Vorhis, son of Jotham Vorhis, was born in this town 



448 TOWN Of SPENXER. 



in 1812. His preparatory education was received itt Owegb; he 
■entered Hamilton College and graduated in 1836, and from 
Auburn Theological Seminai'y in '38. He was pastor of the 
Presbyterian church at Akron, O., for two years, at Danby, N. Y., 
fourteen years, Phoenix, N. Y., five years, Hammond'sport, ;N. 
Y., eight years, and at Spencer fifteen years before his retire- 
ment. He married A. Louisa Ward, of Allegany county, N. Y., 
by whom he had three children, viz.: Mary H., Lillian, who died 
at the age of six years, and Harry S. Mr. Vorhis died July 17, 
1885. 

Dr. J. H. Tanner was born in Virgil, Cortland county,. N. Y., 
October 17, 1834, and lived in that town some thirty years. He 
studied medicine with Dr. Knapp, in Harford, and gra;duated at 
Buffalo, N. Y., in 1862, when he returned home and formed a 
partnership with Dr. J.H. Knapp, which continued only forashort 
time. In October, 1863, he moved to Nineveh, Broome county, N. 
Y. In May, 1864, he married CorneliaG., eldest daughter of James 
Heath, of Harford. He continued his practice in Nineveh until 
January, 1865. He bought out Dr. Knapp, of Harford, and late 
in January, he removed to that place, where he continued his 
practice until thie summer of 1866, whein he sold out to Dr. 
Knapp, and moved to Weltonvilte, Tioga county, where hq con- 
tinued to practice until October, 1877. Here he buried his wife. 
In the fall of 1878, be married his second wife, and settled in 
.Spencer, Tioga county, N. Y., where he now resides. He has 
one son, J. Henry. 

Samuel Bliven, of Westerly, R. I., was a soldier of the revo- 
lution, and married Mary Green, by whom he had eight childi"en. 
Among them was Luther, who married Rebecca Cook, by whom 
he had nine children. Of these, Samuel G., was born in Hart- 
ford, N. Y., January i, 1799, lived there until he was a year old, 
when his people removed to Fort Ann, N. Y. When twenty-four 
years of age he came to Spencer, and has since resided here, — 
a period of over sixty-two years. He married Rebecca, daugh- 
ter of Phineas Spalding, by whom he has had six children. He 
has been engaged principally in farming, and now lives retiredin 
the village of Spencer. Mrs. Bliven died September 8, 1885, 
.aged seventy-five years. 

Capt. John Fields was another of the very early settlers of this 
town, and who in his early years was a member of the Queen's 
Rangers, a regiment of the British army. When his time of enlist- 
raent expired he asked for his discharge, but it was denied him. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 449 



He awaited his opportunity, and deserted, coming to this country, 
and in the war of 1812 took arms against, the British, and served 
the American cause faithfully. He was taken prisoner at the 
battle of Lundy's Lane, and after a period of confinement was dis- 
charged. When the war closed he retired to his farm, in the 
eastern part of the town of Spencer, where he spent the remainder 
of his life. His wife was Lydia Bates, who died, leaving no 
children. 

Joshua Tompkins was born in Oxford, England, September 22, 
•1815. On April 30, 1836. he left Liverpool in the packet " Napo- 
leon," and arrived in New York the following month. He came 
direct to Spencer, where he located on the farm npw owned by 
his brother James, and this town has been his onl^ home in 
America. He married Susan, daughter of William and Hannah 
Lorring. He is now engaged in farming, and in building opera- 
tions within the corporation of Spencer village. Mr. Tompkins 
is probably one of the oldest foreign born citizens of the town. 

James Silke was born in Cork, Ireland, and for thirteen years 
after his arrival in this country he was in the employ of Halsey 
Brothers, of Ithaca, who were running one of thfe largest floui"- 
ing mills at that time in Central New York. In 1874, he came to 
Spencer to take the management of A. Seely's mill, which posi- 
tion he still holds. He married Mary Wasson, of Ithaca, and has 
four children. 

Dr. G. W. Davis was born in Trenton, Dodge county. Wis., 
May 29, 1851. When he was only seven years old his parents 
removed to Ithaca, N. Y., where he received his education. He 
entered the office of Dr. John Winslow, of Ithaca, and also the 
office of Dr. M. M. Brown, and Dr. P. C. Gilbert. He graduated 
from the University of Buffalo, in 1882. He located first in New^ 
field, Tompkins county, where he remained one year, and since 
then he has been located in Spencer village. He married Eva, 
daughter of Holmes Shepard, of Van Ettenville, by whom he has 
one child, 

Truman Lake came to this town from Greenville, Green county, 
N. Y., in 1815, and settled on the farm now owned and occupied by 
Fred W. Lake. He married Clarissa, daughter of Rufus Brown, 
of NewMalbury, N. Y., by whom he had six children, viz.: Betsey, 
wife of Erastus Meacham, of Owego, Maria (Mrs. Jacob Vqrhis), 
Harvey, Rachel (Mrs. Joshua Philo), Hiram and Rufus, all 
deceased except Mrs. Meacham, who is now in her eighty-fifth 
year, and resides in Owego. 



450 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



J. Parker Vose, son of John Vose of this town, married Nancy 
B., daughter of Isaac Buckley, of Danby, N. Y., in June, 1853; 
Their children are Emma J., wife of J. B. G. Babcock, of Owego, 
and Charles E. 

S. Alfred Seely is a son of Seymour A. and Polly Seely, and 
was born in Newfield, Tompkins county, in 1^42. Till the age 
of sixteen he attended the district school near his home, finishing 
his school days by several terms in Spencer and then in Ithaca: 
He taught school several terms, and at the age of twenty-one 
went to Elmira, N. Y., and in company with his brother, Sey- 
mour, commenced the manufacture of lumber, under the firm 
name of A. Seely & Bro. After eleven years in Elmira, they 
transfered their business to Spencer, purchased several acres of 
land near the G., I. & S. R. R. station, put up a large steam saw- 
mill, and went to work, employing at times two hundred men. 
In 1875 they erected a steam fjouring-mill near their saw-mill, 
and this is now the only mill of its kind doing business in the 
town. Within a year or two, an addition has been made to it, in 
which the grinding is done by the roller process, and large quan- 
tities of the best flour are almost daily shipped to different parts of 
the country. In 1877, they commenced, in a small way, the mer- 
cantile business, which has enlarged till at present they occupy 
a large brick block, their stock including nearly everything 
needed or used in a farming or manufacturing community. In 
j88o, they built near their mills a large creamery, and it is now 
receiving the milk or cream from about 700 cows, brought from 
four or five towns and from three different counties. January i, 
1887, the partnership was dissolved, Seymour retiring and Alfred 
continuing the business alone. Mr. Seely married Emily LaRow, 
of Newfield, October 20, 1863, who bore him one child, a girl, 
who died at the age of four years. Mrs. Seely died in Septem- 
ber, 1879; ^nd in November, i88o, he married Mary E. Williams, 
of Romulus, N. Y., and has three children. 

Silvenes Shepard was born in the town and county of Otsego, 
January 23, 1823. His parents moved to Virgil, Cortland county^ 
in 1826, where he lived until the fall of 1839, at which time they 
moved on to a farm near the white school-house, at East Spen- 
cer. He worked on a farm summers and taught school winters, 
until the spring after he was of age, when he commenced the 
manufacture of tomb-stones, at East Spencer. He removed to the 
village in 1847, and continued in the business till his health gave 
out, in 1849. He, with his brother-in-law, commenced manufac- 



TOWN. OF SPENCER. 45 1 



turing tin-ware and selling stoves, in 1852, continuing in the busi- 
ness a few. years, when he went to farming, working as he was 
'able, until 1862, when he found employment in the store of Lu- 
cius Emmons, father of the Emmons BrOs. He remained in 
their store five years, when he commenced business for himself, 
at the' same place he now occupies. In April, 1867, without 
application or solicitation on his part, he received the appoint- 
ment of postmaster, which office he held till October 17, 1885. 
He has been the recipient of many favors from the citizens of 
Spencer, having held the office of overseer of the poor, assessor, 
and supervisor. To the latter office he has been elected six 
times. He has been interested in the educational interests of the 
town nearly half a century, an advocate for free schools long be- 
fore the enactment of our grand "free school law." While pos- 
itive and decided in his views on all public questions, and free to 
express them in proper times- and places, he. is willing to concede 
the same right to others. He has always taken a decided stand 
against intemperance. 

Charles J. Fisher's grandfather came from Frankfo'rt-on-the-- 
Main, Germany, to this country, in 1754, and, it is believed, set- 
tled in New York city. His son, George, came to Spencer, in 
1810, his family consisting of nine children — five girls and four 
boys. Charles J., the third son, was born in Spencer, in 1817. 
He attended the common schools till the age of eighteen, when 
he entered his father's store as clerk, which business he followed 
for different merchants till 1850, when he commenced business 
for himself, carrying a stock of dry goods and groceries, and 
continued till some time during the rebellion, when he sold his 
stock of goods and opened a drug store, the first one in town, 
which business he still continues. He now lives on the place 
formerly occupied by his father, has always lived and done busi- 
ness on, or very near, the spot where his father settled, in 1810. 

Dr. William Henry Fisher, son of Charles J. Fisher, was born 
January 31, 1854. He studied in the Spencer Academy, and 
studied p^dicine with Dr. T. F. Bliss, of Spencer, and entered 
BeUevue -Hospital Medical College in 1874, graduated in 1876, 
and immediately began practice in Spencer village, where he has 
since resided. The Doctor married Alice Knight, daughter of 
Harding A. Knight, of Spencer, November 14, 1877, and has 
two children, a son and a daughter. 

Roger Vose was born in Bedford, N. H., February 26, 1770. 
He married Anne Bassett, of Sharon, Mass., February 14, 1793, 



452 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



and moved with his family from Bedford, N. H., to Spencer, in 
the fall of 1826, and purchased the farm on which he lived until 
his death, which occurred November 24, 1843. His wife, Anne 
Vose, died March 2, 1834. Their children were : Samuel Vose, 
born at Bedford, N. H., December 27, 1793. He came to Spen- 
cer from Bedford, about the year 1818, and died here, August 3, 
1854. John Vose was born at Bedford, N. H., October 20, 1796. 
He came to this country with his brother, Samuel, about 1818, 
and died March 5, 1871. Jesse Vose was born at Bedford, N. H., 
May 23, 1 801, and died in 1845. Charles Otis Vose was born at 
Bedford, N. H., May i, 1807, and died May 31, 1829. Alfred 
Vose was born in Bedford, N. H., August 10, 1812, He moved 
to this town from Bedford, at the same time of his father; was 
reared and continued to live on the place purchased by his 
father, up to the time of his death, which occurred September 20, 
1883. 

Lucius Emmons was born in Hartland, Hartford county. Conn., 
April 31, 1 8 ID. In early life he worked on a farm, later did office 
work, and then started out as a peddler, to what was then called 
the West (New York state). He came to Spencer to live in the 
spring of 1839, and married Nancy, daughter of Roger Vose, 
July 4, 1839. They removed to Candor, thence to Simsbury, 
Conn., in the fall of 1841, and thence back to Spencer, in the 
spring of 1844, where he remained until his death. He imme- 
diately started in the mercantile business on a small scale, and 
being a peddler himself, he soon formed the idea of sending out 
peddlers, which he did on a large scale, and for many years car- 
ried on a large business in general merchandise. He was taken 
sick in 1856 with a complication of diseases, from which he had 
nearly recovered at the time of his death, which occurred March 
19, 1864. 

Lucius Edward Emmons, son of Lucius and Nancy Emmons, 
was born at Spencer, August 23, 1846. He attended school at the 
Spencer academy, and at the age of nineteen years commenced 
work on his father's farm. At the age of twenty-one years, Au- 
gust 23, 1867, he became a partner with his elder brother, A. S. 
Emmons, as dealers in general merchandise, under the firm name 
of Emmons Brothers, succeeding the firm of Mrs. L. Emmons & 
Son. September 15, 1872, he was married to Cornelia M. Hull, 
daughter of Eben Hull, of Spencer. On a spot made vacant by 
a large fire, and owned by said firm, they erected, in the fall of 
1876 and succeeding winter, a three-story brick drug store, and 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 453. 



after the loss of their wopdeij structure (general store), on the 
opposite corner, they erected, in 1878, a large store of brick to 
carry on the same business. On April 23, 18,80, the firm purchased 
of Dr. William H. Gregg, of Elmira, the formulas for and ex- 
clusive right to manufacture Electro- Silicon liniment, also Dr. 
Shorey's Investigator remedies, which medicine business they 
conducted under the name of the Electro-Silicon Liniment Co. 
On September i, 1886, the firm of Emmons Brothers was dis- 
solved by mutual consent, and by the expiration of the contract; 
L. E. Emmons continuing the drug business in the same store 
before used for that purpose. H,is children are Charlie Hull 
Emmons, aged eleven years ; Freddie Earl Emmons, aged seven 
years, and Jessie Nell Emmons, aged six years. • 

Myron B. Ferris was born in Spencer, April 22, 1835, son of 
Joshua H. and Louisa (Fisher) Ferris., He studied in the Spencer 
Academy, and graduated from the Ithaca High School in 1849, 
He soon after began the mercantile business in Spencer, and 
continued in the same about twenty years, and upon the estab- 
lishment of the bank here he became its assistant cashier, a 
position he still holds, Mr. Ferris has represented the town in 
the board of supervisors four years in succession, and represented 
his county in the legislature of 1873. Mr. Ferris married Han- 
nah M. Cooper, daughter of Jessie B. Cooper, in 1853, and has 
three children/ Nathan B., Stella L., and F. Harry. 

The comparative growth of the town may be seen by the fol- 
lowing citation from the several census enumerations since its- 
organization : 1810,3,128; 1820,1,252; .1825,975; 1830,1,278; 
1835,1,407; 1845-1.682; 1850, 1782; 1855,1,805; 1860,1,881; 
1865, 1,757 ; 1870, 1,863; 1875, 1,884; 1880, 2,382. 

Organization. — At a town-qneeting held at the inn of Jacobus- 
Schenichs, Tuesday, April I, 1806, the following named officers- 
-were elected : Joel Smith, supervisor ; Joshua Ferris, town clerk ; 
Edmond Hobart, Daniel K. Bacon, Levi, Slater, assessors; Moses 
Read, Beajamin Jennings, Joseph Barker, commissioners of high- 
ways;, Lewis Beers, Samuel Westbrook, overseers of the poor; 
Isaiah Chambers, collector; John Shoemaker, Nathan Beers, 
William Cunan, John Murphy, aqd Isaiah Chambers, constables ; 
John F. Bacon, Jp-hn, McQuigg, John Mulks, Jacob Swartwood, 
poundmasters ; John I. Speed, John English, Joseph L. Horton, 
Jacob Herinton, Alexander Ennes, and Lewis Beardslee, fence- 
viewers. 



454 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



The history of Spencer as the county-seat, the history of its 
railroads and newspaper, has already been given, in the general 
history of the county, in the earlier pages of this work. 

BUSINESS CENTERS. 

Spencer VIllage is located on Catatonk creek, west of the 
•center of the town, and on the G. 1. & S. and the E. C, & N. rail- 
j-oads. From i8 12 to 1821, it was the county-seat of Tioga county. 
It contains three churches, the old camping-ground of the Wyo- 
ming Conference, one union school or academy, six dry-goods 
^nd grocery-stores, two hardware-stores,, two drug-stores, one 
-agricultural store, two hotels, one livery-stable, one steam saw 
.and grist-mill, one planing-mill, one plaster-mill, one marble-fac- 
tory, eight blacksniith-shops, three wagon shops, two cabinet- 
-shops, three millinery-shops, three shoe-shops, two tailor-shops, 
■one paint-shop, two harness-shops, one dental office, three doctors' 
offices, two undertaking establishments, one photograph parlor, 
one meat-market, one job printing office, about one hundred and 
sthirty-five dwelling-houses, and seven hundred inhabitants. The 
busy mills, the large number of neat and cpmmodious private 
residences, with well-kept grounds attached, and the highly- 
cultivated fields surrounding the village, attest that the inhabi- 
tants have not forgotten the thrift, habits of industry, and econ- 
-omy which characterized their forefathers from Connecticut and 
Eastern New York. . 

Spencer Springs, lying three miles northeast of Spencer vil- 
lage, has valuable springs of sulphur and chalybeate mineral 
•waters. The surroundings are picturesque, and it has been quite 
(popular as a resort during the summer months. 

North Spencer, about three and one-half miles north of 
Spencer, contains one church (Union), one school-house, a store, 
about twenty dwelling-houses, and one hundred inhabitants. 

Cowell's Corners, a hamlet on Catatonk creek, about one 
,and one-fourth miles east of Spencer, contains a school-house, a 
•shoe-shop, two cooper-shops, and about forty inhabitants. 

The Farmers' and Merchants Bank of Spencer was incorporated 
in March, [884, with a paid-up capital of $25,000.00. The first 
officers were M. D. Fisher, president ; O. P. Dimon, vice-presi- 
dent ; C. P. Masterson, cashier. The present officers are Thomas 
Brock, president; O. P. Dimon, vice-president; M. D. Fisher, 
rfiashier; and M. B. Ferris, assistant cashier. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 455 



Spencer Creamery, S. Alfred Seely Proprietor. — The Spencer 
•Creamery was established in 1880, .by Hoke & Seely, and is 
located in the western part of the village, on Liberty street. At 
present they are manufacturing from the product of 700 cows, 
and are doubling their capacity yearly. All their equipments are 
of the latest and most improved patents. They run two DeLaval 
cream separaters, a steam butter-worker, and all the improved 
steam-power machinery, which is used in the manufacture of 
butter. They also manufacture cheese from skimmed milk. There 
are one hundred hogs and thirty calves fed at the creamery. 
Beside supplying families with the choicest butter, they ship to 
New York twice and three times a week. Last year they manu- 
factured over 60,000 pounds. The creamery is under^the super- 
intendence of Mr. D. LaMont Georgia. 

S. A. Seely s Flour and Custom Mill is situated on Mill street^ 
.near the G., L & S. R. R. depot, and was built in October, 1873, 
by A. Seely & Bro. It was started with three runs of stones, and 
did at that time custom work, principally. In 1879, it was reno- 
vated and enlarged, another run of stones added, and also machin- 
ery necessary for making the new process flour. In the spring 
of 1886, it was again enlarged, and machinery added, making it a 
fulUfledged roller-mill. The capacity of the roller department 
is seventy-five barrels in twenty-four hours. A specialty is made 
of buckwheat grinding, according to the new process, manufac- 
turing flour from 45,000 to 50,000 bushels annually. Three men 
are employed, with James Silke, superintendent. Mr. Seely's 
large steam saw-mill, the. largest in the state, has already been 
spoken of in detail. 

Brundage's Carriage and Wagon Works. — De Witt C. Brundage 
came to Spencer when about eighteen years of age, and learned 
the trade of carriage and wagon making, serving an apprentice- 
ship of three years with George Rosekrans. He bought the 
business of Rosekrans and has since run it almost continuously, 
at the same stand, in Van Etten street. He manufactures wagons, 
sleighs, and ca/riages, of the most approved styles, and does all 
kinds of repairing in the neatest and most workmanlike manner. 

/. T. McMasters Steam Saw-Mill, located on road 53, is operated 
by a fifty horse-power engine. It has a lumber-saw, lath-mill, 
wood-saw, and edger, and also a feed-mill, run by the same power. 
He employs twelve men, and cuts annually 800,000 feet of lumber 
and 500,000 lath., 

Samuel Eastham's Saw-Mill, located on road 36, is' operated by 

30* 



456 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



water-power, employs twelve men, and cuts from 800,000 to 1,000,- 
000 feet of lumber annually. He has also a hay-barn where he 
presses hay, and ships 1,000 tons annually. 

Richardson & Campbell's Brick Yard, located on road 43, was 
established in 1882* The clay is first-class. The firm employs 
thirty-five hands, and have capacit}' for the manufacture of 
3,000,000 brick annually. 

CHURCHES. 

The First Congregational Church was organized November 23, 
1815, with seven members, as follows: DanielHugg, Achsah Hugg, 
Urban Palmer, Lucy Palmer, Stephen Dodd, Mary Dodd, and 
Clarissa Lake. Until the yeai" 1828, the society met in dwelling- 
houses, school-houses, and the court-house, the pulpit being suppli- 
ed by missionaries. Rev. Seth Williston was the first missionary, 
he having been sent out by the Congregationalists of Coilnecticut. 
Rev. Gardner K. Clark was the first regularly installed pastor. 
The church edifice was commenced July 3, 1826, and completed 
two years later. It is of the style usually erected for houses of 
worship in the country fift)' years ago. It cost $2,500, and has 
sittings for about 400 people. Recently the building, through the 
munificence of Mr. Kennedy, has been extensively repaired and 
embellished. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church was organized in 1809, by Peter 
Lott and his wife, Jeremiah Andrews, Esther Dean, Abraham 
Garey, and Hester Ann Purdy. For many years the society was 
supplied by circuit preachers of the Oneida Conference, who 
came once in four weeks. They held meetings in private houses, 
barns, and school-houses until 1828, when the present church was 
completed. It cost $2,800, and will seat 450 people. Rev. Morgan 
Rugar was the first resident pastor. Rev. Loring P. Howard 
is the present one. This church, too, has recently been exten- 
sively repaired. 

The Baptist Church. — Phineas Spalding was the founder of this 
society, and preached to his brethren as early as 1799. The 
society was more formally organized by Elder David Jayne, 
February 11, 1810, and consisted of fifteen members, as follows: 
Phineas Spalding, Susannah Spalding, John Cowell, Deborah 
Cowell, Thomas Andrews, Jemima Andrews, Joseph Barker, 
Phebe Barker, Mehitable Hubbard, William Hugg, Lydia Hugg, 
Polly Underwood, Benjamin Cowell, Benjamin Castalin, and 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 457 



Ruth Castalin. Its first church was erected about 1830, and 
located one mile east of the village. The present one was com- 
pleted in 1853, costing, with the alterations since made,' about 
$4,000. It is the largest church in the village of Spencer, seats 
700 in the audience-room, and 300 in the Sunday-school room. 

The Union Church at North Spencer was organized, with thirty 
members, in 1870, and its church edifice, which will seat 275 
people, was erected the same year, at a cost of about $1,500. 



TIOGA originally embraced the boundaries of what is now 
denominated asthe town of Tioga, together with much othe"" 
territory, and was distinctively organized into a township by 
an act of the legislature passed March 22, 1788, erecting the so- 
called "Old Town of Chemung," which was bounded as follows : 

" Beginning at the intersection of the partition line between 
New York State and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and 
the Pennsylvania State line, (west of Elmira) ; and running from 
said point of intersection due north along said partition line to 
the distance of two miles north of the Tioga [now Chemung] 
river; thence with a straight line to the Owego river [creek] ^ 
at the distance of four miles on a straight line from the conflu- 
ence thereof with the Susquehanna river ; thence down the 
Owego [creek] and Susquehanna to the Pennsylvania line ; thence 
along the same to tl}e place of beginning." 

It will be seen then, that the northern, eastern and southern 
boundaries of the Old Town of Chemung were identical with 
the present like boundaries of the town of Tioga. This territory 
remained a part of the Old Town of Chemung, until the act of 
the legislature was passed, February 16, 1791, creating the 
county of Tioga. By that act, about one-half of this Old Town 
of Chemung, comprising the easterly half, with some other ter 
■ritory on the north, was erected into ^ new town, called Owego, 
which name it continued to bear until the act of the legislature 
of April 12, 1813, dividing the counties of the state into towns. 
Prior to the act of 1813, the territory next immediately east of 
the Owego creek, or the present town of Owego, was known as 
the town of Union, until April i, 1800, when, by virtue of an act 
of the legislature passed March 14, 1800, a new and separate 
town was formed from the territory next east of the Owego 
creek, and called the Town of Tioga, which name it also bore 
until the act of 1813. By the act of April 12, 1813, the names of 



458 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



these two towns, Owego on the west of the Owego creek, Tioga 
on the east thereof, were exchanged one for the other, as they 
now are. Each of these towns, however, originally included 
much other territory than that embraced within their present 
limits, other towns having been subsequently erected from them. 

This town (Owego, from 1791-1813; Tioga, from 1813 to the 
present), originally was bounded on the east by the Owego creek, 
and a line running from the mouth thereof to the Pennsylvania 
state line ; on the south, by the Pennsylvania state line ; on 'the 
west, by the Cayuta creek ; and on the north by the north bounds 
of the original Tioga county. The town of Spencer, then in- 
cluding the present town of Candor, was erected out of this town, 
February 28, 1806, and embraced all of that part of the town 
lying north of the Old Chemung Township line. So that, as 
respects the northern boundary of the town, it again became 
identical with that which it was when the town formed a part of 
the Old Town of Chemung, and it still is so. The town was 
again divided, by an act of the legislature passed March 23, 1824, 
and the towns of Nichols and Barton were erected from it, and 
the town was territorially reduced to itspresent limits. The south- 
ern boundary thereof was restored to the Susquehanna river, and 
in this respect also was again made identical with that which it 
was when a part of the Old Town of Chemung. 

The present boundaries of the town are as follows : Easterly, 
b}' the Owego creek, which separates it from the town of Owego; 
southerly, by the Susquehanna river, which separates it from the 
town of Nichols; westerly, by a line drawn from the mouth of 
Mundy's creek, northerly to the southwest corner of great lot 
number 171, in the old Chemung township; thence along the line 
of said lot to the north bounds of the town, or by the town of 
Barton ; and northerly, by the old Chemung township line, or by 
the towns of Candor and Spencer. It is the only interior town 
of the county, that is, the only one which is not bounded by ter- 
ritory lying without the county. 

Surface. — Topographically considered, the town of Tioga in- 
cludes 35,805 acres. Its surface is principally uplands, with 
small areas of river-bed flats. The soil in the valleys and on the 
river-beds is a dark. loam, and on the uplands a gravel loam. Its 
chief water-courses are Pipe and Catatonk creeks. There are, 
however, several other smaller streams, which empty either into 
these creeks, or into the Susquehanna river. Pipe creek is made 
up of two bi-anches, the northern and the western ; the northern 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 459 



branch rising in the town of Candor, and flowing nearly due 
south, and the western branch, rising in the town of Barton, and 
flowing nearly due east, meet in junction at Beaver Meadows, 
and flowing thence in a southeasterly course, empty into the 
Susquehanna at Tioga Center, near the center of the southern 
boundary. It is the real great water-course of the town. The 
Catatonk creek, entering from the town of Candor, flows in a 
southeasterly course across the northeast portion of the town, 
and empties into the Owego creek, midway of the eastern 
boundary of the town, and about two miles from the Susque- 
hanna river. 

The chief pursuit of the inhabitants of the town now is agri- 
culture. In former times lumbering was one of thegteat avoca- 
tions; but the timber has been so nearly cut down and the lands 
so thoroughly cleared, that there remains at this day, only a 
vestige of the former extensive industry. 

Settlement and Growth. — The territory occupied by the old 
town of Chemung, was surveyed and platted by Clinton, Cantine, 
and Hathorn. Certificates of location and survey w6re granted 
in the present town of Tioga, as follows : To Isaac D. Fowler, 
Jacob Ford, Peter W. Yates, Josiah Richardson, and Thomas 
Klump, June 23, 1789, 8,000 acres on the river bank, and forming 
nearly a square now known as " Yates Location," Tioga Centre 
being in that tract ; Archibald Campbell, same date, 3,000 acres, 
two islands included, lying north of " Yates Location " on the 
river-bank, and on Owego creek to confluence of the Catatonk 
creek ; Thomas Palmer, same date, 3,000 acres, and 418 acres in 
the south part of the town, west of Smithboro; Jonas Poirs and 
Benjamin Koles, November 12, 1788, 540 acres where Smithboro 
now is. and this was assigned to Jesse Smith, February, 1789; ■ 
Abraham Bancker, November 6, 1788, lot 188, 1,000 acres, assigned 
to John Ransom, February 28, 1792 ; James and Robert R. Bur- 
nett. January 15, 1789, lot 204, of 1,360 acres ; Amos Draper and 
Jonas Williams, November 12, 1788, lot 160, 330 acres; Jesse 
Miller,,Xhomas Thomas, and Enos Canfield, same date, 2,765 acres ; 
Samuel' Ransom, same date, lot i62,4ioacres; Nathaniel Goodspeed, 
same date, lot 163, 430 acres ; Silas Taylor, same date, lot 164, 230 
acres; Samuel Ransom, Ebenezer Taylor, Jr., Prince Alden, Jr., 
Andrew Alden, Christopher Schoonover, and Benjamin Bidlack, 
same date, lot 165, 1,980 acres, assigned October, 1790, to Samuel 
Ransom ; Ebenezer Taylor, Jr., William Ransom, Abijah Marks, 
Samuel Van Gorden, Benoni Taylor, and John Cortright, Novem- 



460 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



eorge Denni- 
6, 1788, lot 167, 



ber 13, 1788, lot 166, 2,400 acres ; James Clinton, G 
ston, Alexander Deriniston, and others, November ( 
3,000 acres, with all islands in Owego river opposite said lot ; and 
to James Clinton, James Humphrey, William Scjtt, and James 
Denniston, lot 168, 4,000 acres; Brinton Paine, November 13, 
1788, lot 169, 800 acres ; Peter A. Cuddeback, I'eter Cantine, 
Peter Jansen.^and Elisha Barber, November 6, 178!, lot 172, 4,tio6 
acres; William and Egbert De Witt, March 4 1791, a lot of land 
containing 1,600 acres. 

It seems to be conceded, generally, that among the earliest 
pioneers within the limits of the present town of Tioga, were 
Samuel and William Ransom and Prince and Andrew Alden. 
Samuel and William Ransom were sons of Samuel Ransom and 
Esther, his wife. This elder Samuel Ransom was a captain in 
the Continental army, and was killed July 3, 1778, at the histori- 
cal massacre of Wyoming. These four persons came up the 
Susquehanna river, from Wyoming Valley, and made a settle- 
ment in the town about the year 1785. William Ransom and 
Andrew Alden settled a short distance south of the mouth of 
Pipe creek, upon the westerly bank of the river, where they built 
a log house, supposed to have been the first structure of the kind 
erected in the town. 

In his "Centennial History," Hon. W. F. Warner, however, 
inclines to the opinion that there were transient settlers here 
earlier, remarking as follows : 

"The late Judge Avery was clearly in error in stating that 
there was no settlement of the white race in the county earlier 
than 1783 or '84. In a journal kept by Lieut. Van Hovenburg, 
who accompanied Gen. James Clinton in the expedition down 
the Susquehanna to join Sullivan in 1779, mentions that 'the 
division marched ten miles from Owego down the river and en- 
camped at Fitz Gerrel's farm.' This establishes the fact that as 
early as 1779, there was a settler either in the town of Tioga or 
Nichols. 

" In the journal of Daniel Livermore, another officer, is the 
following entry: ' Saturday, August 21. This morning the troops 
march early, make but few halts during the day: at 5 p. m. en- 
camp on the banks of the river, opposite farm, about 

seventeen miles from Owego.' Another journal described it as 
'an abandoned plantation.', 

" These are sufficient, however, to prove that at a much earlier 
period than has heretofore been claimed, there were settlers 
along the river. A settlement was made in the Wyoming Valley 
in 1769, and doubtless about the same time there were a few in 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 461 



this county, though they may have been forced to leave by rea- 
son of the disturbed state of the country during the revolution." 
Samuel Ransom and Prince Alden settled about two miles fur- 
ther down the river, nearly opposite of Spendley's high bridge 
over the New York, Lake Erie & Western, and the Southern 
Central railway tracks. Of the ancestral history of the Alden 
brothers, nothing is known. Andrew Alden removed to the 
State of Ohio, about the year 1808, and Prince Alden died about 
the same year. Samuel Ransom was born September 28, 1759, 
at Canaan, now Norfolk, Ct.; married, in 1783 or 1784, to Mary 
Nesbitt, near Plymouth, Pa., and was drowned in the Susque- 
hanna river, near Tioga Center, by the upsetting of a skiff, about 
the year 1807. His widow and seven children subsequently 
moved West, where they died. During his life-time, Samuel 
Ransom built on his land the first tavern, and the first school- 
house in the town. The tavern was situate a very few rods east 
of Spendley's high bridge, upon the highway. It was a log struc- 
ture, but afterward a framed addition was built on to it. A few 
years before he died, he became involved financially, and dying, 
left but little property to his family. William Ransom was born 
May 26, 1770, at Canaan, now Norfolk, Ct.; married, in 1792, 
Rachel Brooks, daughter of James and Mary Brooks, at Tioga 
Center. This was the first marriage in the town of Tioga. Will- 
iam Ransom died in Tioga Center, January 8, 1822, leaving a 
widow and ten children, another child of theirs having died in 
infancy. Nine of the ten children have descendants living. These 
children of Major William Ransom make up the Tioga branch of 
the Ransom family, and the following is their genealogical record: 
Ira, born December 4, 1792; married. January 22, 1814, Sarah 
Forman, at Nichols, N. Y.T and died June i, 1848, at Wysox, Pa. 
Sybil, born August 14, 1794; married, February i, 1816, Henry 
Light, at Smithboro, and died there April 15, 1877. David, boi:n 
October 14, 1796; died unmarried, May 9, 1827, at Philadelphia, 
Pa. Benjamin, born September 26, 1799; married, July 7, 1821, 
Lucy Frost, at Tioga Center, and died there, January 18, 1830. 
William, born April 9, 1801 ; married, September 14, 1831, Ange- 
line Martin, at Owego, and died at Tioga Center, February 7, 
1883. Rachel, born August 23, 1803; married, January 23, 1823, 
David Wallis, at Tioga Center, and is still living upon the Wallis 
homestead, in the town of Tioga. Charles, born September 19, 
1805 ; married, October 2, 1832, Hope Maria Talcott, at Owego, 
and died August 12, i860, at Tioga Center. Printice, born Sep- 



462 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



tember 17, 1807; married, October 19, 1830, Fanny Thurston, at 
Owego, and is still living, at Iowa City, la. Harriet, born 
August 15, 1809; married, May 19, 1840, Asa Guildersleeve Jack- 
son, at Tioga Center, and died there, June 4, 1847. Charlotte^ 
born April 13, 181 1 ; died, June 26, 181 1, at Tioga Center. Mary 
Johnson, born November 24, 1812; married, January 29, 1833, 
Gilbert Strang, at Tioga Center, and died there, June 9, 1872. ^ 

The next advent of settlers appears to have been Lodowyck 
Light, Jesse Miller, the elder, and Enos Canfield, virho came 
from the vicinity of Bedford, Westchester county, and located 
upon a tract of five hundred acres, known as the " Light & 
Miller Location," next west of where Samuel Ransom located, 
extending southwesterly well toward the village of Smithboro, 
They came on, made clearings and built their houses in about the 
year 1787, and brought on their families about the year 
1790. Lodowyck Light first built a small cabin, upon a small 
knoll nearly directly across the road from the residence of the 
late Henry G. Light, and soon afterwards built his log house 
near the site of the latter, near the old well thereon, where he 
lived until his death, August 26, 1830, being a month and four 
days past seventy-eight years of age. His wife, Martha, died 
September 28, 1842, four months and four days past eighty-siig 
years of age. The remains of these venerable pioneers lie buried 
in the old burying-ground, upon the top of the hill, about one 
mile east of Smithboro village. This old burying-ground is now 
in a sorry state of dilapidation, and its condition ought to be im- 
proved at once for the sake of its preservation. This is also the 
site of the first meeting- house in the town of Tioga, built in 18 12, 
by the Methodist and Baptist denominations. It was destroyed 
by lightning in the summer of 1826 ; and there are those who are 
so irreverent as to say that, it was the meet judgment of the 
w-rath of God, because of the intensity of the denominational 
jealousies and unchristian differences between the two church 
organizations. Lodowyck Light was a prominent citizen, and 
took an active part in the political affairs of his day. 

Jesse Miller, the elder, built his log cabin upon the site of the 
old Miller homestead, very near where Thomas Watkins now 
lives, a few rods east of the residence of Amos Canfield. His 
wife's name was Kesiah, and they had four sons — Jesse, Jr.,. 
Ezra, Ziba and Amos; and several daughters, among whom were 
Jerusha, Lucy and Polly. Jesse Miller, Sr., died April 9, 1812, 
at the age of sixty-four years. Jesse Miller, Jr.. removed West, 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 463; 



and died there. Ezra, Ziba and Amos spent their lives in the 
town of Tioga, where they died, all of them leaving descendants, 
among the most venerable of whom is Mrs. Lucy Brooks,, 
daughter of Amos Miller, and widow of Benjamin V. Brooks. 
She now lives with her children in Owego village, and has passed 
the very ripe age of eighty four years. The wife of Amos Miller 
was Polly Jayne, daughter of the Rev. David Jayne, who was 
the first preacher of the town, and who is said to have begun his- 
ministerial work here as early at least as 1795. 

Enos Canfield settled and built a log house near the present 
residence of Amos Canfield, his son, and lived there until he died,. 
December 14, 1822, aged fifty five vears, ten months and seven- 
teen days. His wife was Polly (Robinson) Canfield, Snd sh^ died 
May 7, 1849, ^t the ripe age of eighty-three years, ten months- 
and nine days. Enos Canfield was a promient citizen, and took 
an active part in the church affairs of his day, being a staunch ad- 
herent of the Baptist orthodox faith. There were fourteen chil- 
dren born to this couple, of whom Amos Canfield still survives, 
and was eighty-eight years of age in March, 1887. The latter 
married Ellen Knapp, and the fruit of their marriage has beeru 
nine children, now living. 

Ezra Smith also immigrated into this town from Westchester 
county, about the year 1791, and settled at the point where the 
village of Smithboro is. The land in that vicinity had been 
granted by the state to Poirs & Koles prior to that time, and bj 
them assigned to Jesse Smith, a brother of Ezra. Ezra Smith 
kept the tavern situate near where the store building of Walter 
C. Randall now stands. He removed to the town of Candor,, 
about the year 1809, and was succeeded by Isaac Boardman. 

Colonel David Pixley was a pioneer, who had made exploring- 
and surveying expeditions through this country, in the interest of 
the proprietors of the Boston Purchase, and finally settled in this- 
town, just south of the Owego creek, on what is called the Camp- 
bell location. He built his log house near where Ephraim Good- 
rich now resides, and a portion of the old structure is still stand- 
ing. In 1802, he sold his property in this town to Noah and 
Eliakim Goodrich, and removed to Owego. A more extended 
sketch of Colonel Pixley will be found in the history of the town 
of Owego. 

Dr. Samuel Tinkham settled in the town.about the same time 
as Colonel Pixfey, on the place now owned by A. J. Goodrich. 
He was a physician, and married Colonel Pixley's sister, Polly. 



464 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Abner Turner, of New Hampshire, who also accompanied Col. 
Pixley upon his exploring expeditions in the interest of the pro- 
prietors of the Boston Purchase, settled near the east line of the 
town, and opened a tavern. He died upon his homestead in this 
town. 

Another notable family of early settlers was the Brooks family. 
Three brothers, James, John, and Cornelius, it is stated, their 
father having died in the old country, emmigrated from Dublin to 
this country. Their widowed mother died upon the voyage, and 
was burie^ at sea. John and Cornelius s'ettled, one in Massa- 
chusetts, the other in New Jersey. James Brooks married Polly 
Johnson, in New Jersey, and settled in this town in 179T, on the 
old Brooks homestead, upon the corner opposite where the Inde- 
pendent Order of Good Templers' lodge building now is, in 
Tioga Center, near the house owned by Jerome Schoonover. The 
exact locality is marked by the old Brook's well, at that point. 
James Brooks died in 18 10, and had five sons, — Cornelius, David. 
John, Benjamin, and James, Jr. Cornelius took up his location 
and built a log house in the orchard between the Susquehanna 
river and the railways, opposite the blackwalnut tree, just west 
of the present residence of Theodore Horton. He subsequently 
moved West, and died at Olean, N. Y. David Brooks married 
Susan Allen, and lived in a log house upon the bank of the Sus- 
quehanna river, opposite the present residence of James Higbee, 
near the DuBois hay barn. He subsequently removed to Michi- 
gan, where he died. John Brooks built a tavern near the well, 
by the present residence of Samuel Kuykendall, which he kept 
for a few years, and then removed to Cincinnati, O. James 
Brooks married Amy, daughter of Lodowyck Light, and for a 
while lived in a house near the residence of Judson Gardner, 
at Tioga Center, having taken up twenty-five acres of land there. 
He afterward enlisted in the war of 1812, and was killed while 
in the service. His widow. Amy, subsequently built a framed 
house upon the top of the hill, immediately west of the residence 
of the late Henry G. Light, and lived there. Three children 
were born of this marriage, Chloe, Benjamin Van Campen, and 
Patty. 

In "1820, Chloe Brooks married John H. Yontz, who came into 
this vicinity from Virginia, about 1818, and for a long time was a 
prominent citizen of l^mithboro and Tioga Centre. He die€ in 
1875. His widow is still living at Smithboro, and is now eighty- 
six years of age, with mental vigor unimpaired. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 465 



Benjamin V. Brooks married Lucy, daughter of Amos Miller, 
as has been stated before, and was for a long time a leading and 
prominent citizen of Smithboro, engaged in the industrial pur- 
suits of farming and lumbering. He died December 27, 1873, at 
Owego, leaving his widow, and the following children : Horace 
Agard, Mrs. E. A. B. Mitchell, Chester, Mandana, and Chloe M. 

Benjamin Brooks, son of James, married Patty Stowe, and 
lived in a double log house on the original Brooks homestead, 
at the old well, near the house now owned by Jerome Schoonover, 
as aforesaid. Four children survived him, of whom Ira and James 
are dead, and Mary Ives, living in Illinois, and Conelius Brooks, 
living at Tioga Centre, at the ripe old age of seventy-seven years. 

Francis Gragg also immigrated into this town at S date uncer- 
tain, but supposed to be prior to 1800. He came originally from 
Schomokin Creek, Pa. His wife, Margaret, came with him. 
They moved into the old tavern built by John Brooks, upon the 
site of the residence of Samuel Kuykendall, and lived there until 
1 8 19, when they moved into an old house which stood almost ex- 
actly upon the site of the present house of Charles C. Van Nor- 
stran, where he lived the rest of his live. Margaret Gragg died 
July 26, 1824, and Francis died April 15, 1854. They are buried 
in the Van Norstran vault, about one mile west of Tioga Centre. 
They had only one child, Sally, who married John Van Nor- 
stran. Mr. Van Norstran also originally came from Shamokin 
Creek, Pa., and July 20, 1819, he moved into the Brooks-Gragg 
tavern, and was the proprietor of it until he died, June 6, 1837. 
Sally, his wife, died December 30, 1873. Eight children were 
born of this union, of whom John, Silas, Frank, Margaret, and 
William, are dead: and James, Charles C, and Mrs. Eliza 
Coburn (widow of Charles R. Coburn), are living. 

Joel Farnham, who was a native of Wyoming and there at the 
time of the famous Indian massacre, located upon the old Farn- 
ham homj^Kead, off road 12, about the year 1794, and died here 
August 15, i858,agedovereighty-four years. His wife, Ruth, died 
August 30, 1862, aged eighty-five years. None of their ten chil- 
dren are now living. His son, Frederick A., born February 26, 
1818, married Agnes L. Barclay, who bore him five children, 
Joel S., Alice L. (Mrs. George H. Day), Elisha W., Herbert A. 
and May E. Mr. Farnham died February 21, 1887, and his 
widbw still occupies the old homestead. 

George A. Farnham, the eldest grandson of Joel, Sr., and son 
of Sylvester, now resides on road 12. 



466 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Jeremiah White settled about 1794, on the place afterwards 
owned by Elizur Wright, Abel Stafford, and subsequently by 
John Dubois. He was a good mechanic, and was the first hus- 
band of Mrs. Whitaker, who was taken captive at Wyoming in 
1778, when twelve years of age, carried to Canada, kept two 
years, then released and sent home. He removed to Catatonk 
Creek, and died suddenly, in 1805, from injuries received in a 
mill. 

William Taylor accompanied James McMaster to Owego, in 
1785, as a bound boy. After planting and securing a crop of 
corn, thev returned to their headquarters on the Mohawk. Jacob 
Catlin, son of Nathaniel Catlin, said he-used to hear Amos Dra- 
per tell of McMaster's raising corn and the Indians watchingand 
caring for it in his absence, and who, at the harvesting of the 
same, received from him a share of the crop. He cut dead pines 
on the bank of the creek, felled them into the water, bound them 
together with withes, forming a raft, on which he put his corn 
and floated it down the rfver to Wilkesbarre to mill. Mr. Taylor 
did not return to Owego until 1793, and soon after came to this 
town and occupied the Henry Young farm. In 1800, he made 
arrangements to sell his property, and in 1801, removed to Can- 
dor, and died in 1849, aged eighty -two years. Nathaniel came 
from Orange county in 1800, and decided to purchase the farm 
of William Taylor, and in 1801 brought his family and com- 
pleted the purchase. 

Daniel Mersereau emigrated from Staten Island, in 1794, and 
settled where Brindley Wallace now lives. He was impressed 
by the English, taken on board a vessel, and kept several days, 
but by interference of friends was released. He died in 1848, 
aged eighty-six years. 

Cornelius Taylor settled here in 1794, and was from Plymouth, 
Wyoming — sold part of his farm to Mersereau. He died in 1848, 
aged seventy seven years. l~ 

Jonathan Catlin was an early settler at what is known as 
Goodrich Settlement. Five of his six sons located, in 1820, at 
what is still known as Catlin Hill, viz.: Stephen, Jonathan, Joseph, 
James and Nathaniel. Nathaniel, born September 4, 1787, mar- 
ried EUeanor Van Riper, March 22, 1829, who bore him ten 
children. Mrs. Catlin died September 16, 1856, and Mr. Catlin 
married for his second wife Mrs. Mary J. Wolverton, who bore 
him two children, and still survives him. Mr. Catlin died Octo- 
ber 31, 1866. Ten of the children are living, viz.: George, 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 4O7 



Sarah (Mrs. Herman N. Goodrich), Charles M., Frederick H., 
Frank K., Andrew R., Nathaniel R., Chauncey R , William and 
Lavern. Joseph married three times and had born to him fifteen 
children. He died February 17, 1885. Stephen married twice, 
Chloe Higgins and Betsey Decker, respectively, had a family of 
seven children. Jonathan married Patty Spencer, and had a 
family of six children. James married Mary Heacock, who bore 
him eight children. 

Noah Goodrich, from Connecticut, with his family, in 1802, 
located in what is known as Goodrich Settlement. He was born 
August 30, 1764, and died July 19, 1834. He married twice, and 
reared a family of five children: All his four sons, Erastus, Aner, 
Norman and Ephraim, located in this vicinity, spending their 
lives here, and of whom Ephraim is still living. Aner was born 
September 30, 1789, and married, January 19, 1815, Ruth Strat- 
tpn, vvho bore him four children, two of whom, Andrew J. and 
Emily N. (Mrs. L. Truman), are living. The former was born 
October 18, 1827. Aner's children were John, born December 
S, 1830, and died July 20, 1876; one, who died in infancy ; Emily 
N., born December 30, 1817. 

Norman Goodrich, son of Noah, was born December 30, 1792.' 
He married Eliza True, in 1822, who bore him eight children, 
viz.: Noah, born April 5, 1823; Herman N., born October 11, 
1824, married Sarah E. Catlin, had one son, Charles T., and died 
in November, 1.874; Mary L., born August 20, 1826; RhodaA. 
(Mrs. B. C. Stiles), born May 29, 1828, married October 23, 1849, 
and her children are Fred H., Mary E. (Mrs. Stephen Goodrich), 
Sarah A., Helen G. (Mrs. William Millrea), and George B. (Mr. 
Stiles died February 27, 1882); Mortimer N. and Malvina, twins, 
died in infancy; Abner T., born March 23, 1830, died September 
12, 1853 ; and Jairus T., born November 18, 1838, married Alice 
Smith, Mav 8, 1884. Noah, son of Norman, married Charlotte 
R. Lane, May 15, 1845, who has borne him five children, three of 
whom are living, — Hiram E., born December 31, 1847, Jennie E. 
(Mrs. F. C. Steele), born August 29, 1849, and Ella J. (Mrs. W. 
Luce), born December 30, 1859. 

Ephraim Goodrich, son of Noah, Sr., was born October 31, 
1815; married Hannah B., daughter of George C. Horton, who 
has borne him two children, Ruth A., born May 22, 1844, died 
December 26, 1878, and Charles E., born October 7, 1850, mar- 
ried Mary E. Raymond, June 10, 1874, and died March 3, 1882. 
Eliakim Goodrich came to Tioga with his cousin Noah, in 1802. 



468 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



He married Sarah Leland, in 1781, and had a family of twelve 
children, as follows : Ansel, born in 1782, married Mary Strick- 
land, and died in 1819; Ira, born in 1785, married Fear Potter, 
and died in 1825 ; Cypnon, born in 1786, married Abigail Giles, 
and died in 1850; Lucy, born in 1788, married Joseph Berry, and 

died in -^ ; Alanson, born in 1790 ; Silas, born in 1793, married 

Mary A. Goodrich, and died in 1863 ; Sarah, born in 1795 ; 
Betsey, born in 1797, married Jonathan Piatt ; Fanny, born in 
1799, died young; Jasper, born in 1801, married Betsey Thorn; 
William, born in 1804, married Mary Fox, and died in 1872 ; and 
Fanny, born in 1806. 

Alanson Goodrich, son of Eliakim, was born December 26, 
1790, married Mary A Pixley, March i, 1815, who bore himseven 
children, — Charles P., born September 27, 1816 ; Frederick, born 
October i, 1818; Harriet D. (Mrs. Sherman Mosher), born June 
22. 1821, died November 9, 1877 ; Eunice (Mrs. Horatio Brown), 
born March 11, 1826, died June 6, 1852; Elizabeth (Mrs. John C. 
Searls), born March 11, 1826, died January 8, 1856 ; Frances (Mrs. 
George O. Stroup), born September 24, 1830: George L., born 
August 22, 1836, married Harriet S. French, April 9, 1863, and 
resides on the old homestead. 

Silas Goodrich's children were Augusta J., born in 1829, mar- 
ried James S. Griffing ; Sarah A., born in 1831 ; James J., born 
in 1833, died in 1868 ; Ralph, born m 1836, married Jennie Con- 
net, and second Dora Beebe ; Rachel, born in 1836, died in 1852 ; 
Mary C, born in 1839, married Gurdon Horton, March 26, 1863 ; 
Stephen S., born in 1842, married Mary Stiles, and resides on the 
old homestead, their children being Helen L., Mary F., Ralph 
H., and an infant. 

Charles P. Goodrich, son of Alanson, married Harriet Stiles, 
October i, 1840, who has borne him two children, Edgar and 
Mary. 

Jonathan C. Latimer is the great-grandson of Colonel Jona- 
than Latimer, who, soon after the revolutionar}'^ war closed, in 
which he served as a colonel, moved from New London, Conn., 
his ancestral home for over a century, to the now state of Tenn- 
esee. Jonathan Latimer, the father of Jonathan C. Latimer, in 
1831, when twenty-eight years of age, moved to Illinois and set- 
tled at Abingdon, Knox county, where he became a prominent 
and successful business man, accumulating a large estate, and 
commanding the love and respect of the entire community. Jona- 
than C, Latimer was born at Abingdon, Knox county, the young. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 469 



est child of a family of ten. His early years were spent on his 
father's farm, and he was trained to take part in the manual labor 
incident to a farmer's life ; enjoying however all the advantages' 
of a liberal education. In 1862, while a student at Knox College, 
he enlisted for a short term of service as a private in Co. E., 71st 
Regiment Illinois Volunteers, and was in service until his regi- 
ment was honorably discharged. In 1864, he finished the regu- 
lar classical course in Knox College, Galesburg, 111., and gradu- 
ated with the degree of A. B., and in 1867, received from the 
same institution the honorary degree of A. M. During the year 
of 1865 and 1866, he com-pleted the course of study in the law 
department of Harvard University, at Cambridge, Mass., and 
secured from that University the degree of LL.B. 4 

Mr. Latimer was admitted to the practice of law in the Supreme 
court of Illinois, in 1866, and practiced law successfully in Chicago 
until 1877, when, on account of the illness of his father-in-law, Col. 
William Ransom, he moved to Tioga Centre, his present place of 
residence. In 1871, he was married to Angle D. Ransom, daugh- 
ter of Ira Ransom, and adopted daughter of Col. William Ran- 
som. They have had three daughters, of whom Angle and Clara 
are now living, the second daughter, Sally, having died in infancy. 
The Ransom family are well and favorably known along the 
Sus.quehanna valley, and noted for strong characteristics, and 
marked ability. Capt. Samuel Ransom, the great grandfather of 
Mrs. Latimer, and head of the family, as we have shown, was 
originally from Connecticut, but early settled in the Wyoming 
Valley. Col. Ransom was born at Tioga Centre, in 1801, and 
died there in 1883. He was a man of great executive power, and 
has left a lasting impress upon his town, being its leading business 
man, and citizen for many years. He was the promoter of seve- 
ral business enterprises, and at his death, left a large property 
to his adopted daughter. 

Since moving to Tioga Centre, in 1877, Mr. Latimer has thor- 
oughly identified himself with the interests of the people of 
Tioga county, and is actively interested in the moral and busi- 
ness problems coming before the people. He is largly engaged 
in farming, and lumbering, giving employment to a large number 
of men. In politics, he is a Republican, and has been three times 
in succession elected supervisor for his town, which is strongly 
Democratic. He has served one term as member of the legis- 
lature, and has received the unanimous nomination from his party, 
for a second term,, Mr. Latimer is a member of the Methodist 



470 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



■church, and has been superintendent of the church Sunday school 
of his place for many years. 

John DuBois came shortly subsequent to 1800, and built the 
house which is still standing, a short distance east of the resi- 
■dence of Jesse Carpenter, one mile west of Tioga Centre. He 
owned a large tract of land, consisting of several hundred acres, 
where he settled. He was a prominent business man and left a 
large family of children, among whom were: John, Jr., Joseph, 
Ezekiel, and Abel. John DuBois, Jr., was the wealthiest man 
Tioga county has produced. He was born at Tioga Centre, and 
remained there until some time after he had attained his majority, 
-when he removed to Pennsylvania, to engage in the lumber busi- 
ness. He owned large tracts of timber land in the neighborhood 
of DuBois city, Pa., which he founded, and where he had a large 
mumber of saw-mills. He had a large lumber yard at Wilhams- 
port, Pa. He was one of the largest and wealthiest dealers in 
lumber in the State of Pennsylvania. He died in 1886, leaving a 
fortune estimated at several million dollars to his nephew and 
namesake, John DuBois, son of Ezekiel DuBoise, of Tioga 
-Centre. 

Frederick Castle, and his nephew, John Castle, came shortly 
^subsequent to 1800, and settled midway between Tioga Centre 
and Smithboro, where they owned a large tract of land. One of 
■them built a tavern, which stood until 1878, when it was burned. 
It was known for many j ears as Spendley's broom shop. 

A family named Saltmarsh came about the same time and set- 
tled in the same neighborhood. 

Henry Primrose came shortly subsequent to 1800, and settled 
a few miles north of Smithboro, near the Barton line. 

Jacob Crator came about the same time and settled in the same 
neighborhood, building the small red house, still standing, across 
the road from Peter Johnson's house. 

Dr. David Earll was educated as a physician and prac- 
ticed medicine a number of years. He has since resided upon his 
farm at Tioga Centre. He was also a merchant a short time. He 
has been for many years one of the prominent Democrats in the 
town. Has been justice of the peace, supervisor, county superin- 
tendent of the poor, 1882-85, member of assembly, 1859 and i860. 
He married a daughter of Benjamin Ransoip. Children : Lucy, 
Alice, Nellie, Edna, David. 

John Gilbert Smith was for many years a prominent business I 
(man of the town. He operated an extensive saw-mill at Tioga "k 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 471 



Centre. He was a prominent and active Democrat. He died in 
1885. His only child, a daughter, married John E. Pembleton. 

Josiah Stowell came to Smithboro about 1835, and erected a 
saw-mill which he operated several years. He also erected a 
hotel and a store, and was a promineat business man. Children : 
Delos, Calvin, and Cornell S. 

Hon. Charles Rittenhouse Coburn, LL.D., wa%a son of Sarah, 
daughter of the celebrated Rev. Enoch Pond. He was' born in 
Bradford county. Pa.; commenced teaching school at a very 
early age ; was principal of the Owego Academy, and afterward 
•of the Susquehanna Collegiate Institute, at Towanda, Pa. He 
was president of the New York State Teachers' i^sociation, 
county superintendent of schools of Bradford county, Pa., state 
superintendent of the common schools of Pennsylvania, 1863-66. 
He married Eliza VanNostrand. He died about 1870, at Nichols. 
His widow is still living, at Tioga Centre. Children : Frank, a 
lawyer, Sarah, who married Capt. James Hillyer, and Charles 
Sidney, of Tioga Centre. 

Ambrose P. Eaton, one of the oldest residents of Smithboro, 
■was born in the town of tfnion, Broome county, June 4, 1826, and 
came to Smithboro in the spring of 1849. ^^ studied law in the 
office of Judge Charles E. Parker, of Owego, was admitted to 
the bar in December, 1868, at Binghamton, and since that time 
he has acquired quite an extensive practice, and has always been 
considered as a careful, trusty lawyer, a man of good judgment, 
and in the trial of cases has been very. successful. In the fall of 
1885, he formed a partnership with Hon. A. G. Allen, and moved 
his office to Waverly. He continued in partnership with Judge 
Allen until the summer of 1886, when the co-partnership was dis- 
solved by mutual consent, Mr. Eaton opening an office and con- 
tinuing the business in Waverly, where he has a large and 
growing practice. Mr. Eaton was postmaster of this village for 
several years, a member of the school board, and an active, earn- 
est worker in the same, rendering valuable assistance in the 
erection of the school building, etc. Mr. Eaton is a man of strong 
convictions, will uphold what he thinks right, and condemn what 
he considers wrong, regardless of what others may say about it. 
For many years he has been a member of the Episcopal church 
here, and was for several years warden of Emmanuel church, of 
this place. He was an active, earnest worker in the church, con- 
tributing liberajly to its support, and rendering it valuable ser- 

31* 



472 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



vices. Mr. Eaton married March 13, i85i,and has one daughter, 
wife of James A. Roberts, of Smithboro. 

William E. Dorwin is one whose life-record affords a striking- 
illustration of what earnest enterprise may accomplish in pro- 
ducing "a self-made man." He was born at Marathon, Cort- 
land county, N. Y., March 18, 1837, where his boyhood and 
youth were passed, and where he obtained his only educational 
advantages, afforded by the district school. In 1857, when twenty 
years of age, he left for the West to begin the trials and strug- 
gles of manhood alone, as a switchman on the T. P. & W. R. R, 
in Illinois. In railroad work his time has ever since been passed. 
From the bottom round he gradually climed the ladder till made 
superintendent of the same road, a position he held eight years, 
and the same successively of the Mt. Claire & Greenwood Lakes- 
railroad of New Jersey two years, and of the Brighton Beach 
railroad, of Long Island, four years. In 1880, he engaged with 
the firm of Smith & Ripley, of New York city, to build the Lac- 
awanna railroad, from Binghamton to Buffalo, and since that 
time has been extensiveily engaged in railroad building, being: 
now engaged in building the Chicago, Madison & Northern rail 
road. 

In 1883, Mr. Dorwin purchased the famous "Glen Mary" 
farm, which he has since made his home. Mr. Dorwin is a vet- 
eran of the late war. having served in Co. B, 3d Ills. Cav., enlist- 
ing August 16, 1861, as a private, and was mustered out as ist 
lieutenant. Aside from his railroad work and farm, Mr. Dorwir» 
is also extensively engaged in milling here, as a member of the 
firm of Dorwin, Rich & Stone. Although a strong Republican 
worker, Mr. Dorwin has accepted no political honors. He mar- 
ried Miss Sarah Longley, of Jacksonville, Ills., in 1867, and has- 
three children. 

John Hill came to the town of Tioga, from Pittsfield, Mass., in 
March, 1793, accompanied by one of his sons. On October 9, 
the same year, his wife arrived, bringing the remainder of their 
children, eight in number. The latter party came down the river, 
a distance of forty miles, in two canoes, and landed opposite 
where the Ah-wa-ga House now stands, in Owego. Chauncev, 
a son of John Hill, was born in Pittsfield, Mass., November 19, 
1791. For many years he was a pilot on the river, being engaged 
in that capacity first, when but eighteen years of age. On May 
12, 1813, he married Lucy, daughter of Benjamin Sexton, of 
Granville, Pa. Mrs. Hill was born in Enfield, N. H„ May 3, 1796, 




64/7^. 




J(rvva;tLwvw 5, oCoJlAii^^t/ui^ 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 473 



and is now living in Owego. They had born to them twelve 
children, namely, Susan, January 13, 1815, married Edward 
Latbrop; James N., December 14, 1816; Amanda M., August. 5, 
1819, wife of James Kenyon ; Lucy, June 12, 1821, married Hiram 
Ireland, and died January 14, 1853; Sabrina, May 14, 1825; 
Maryann S., August 25, 1827 ; Sarah, December 4, 1829, died in 
infancy; Charles F., March 14, 1832 ; Emily, March 2, 1834; Sir 
William Wallace, May 14, 1836, and Frances A., the two later 
dying in infancy. Maryann, married Elijah Morehouse, by whom 
she had six children, viz. : Edward, deceased ; James, of St. Paul, 
Minn.; Alice, Etta, wife of Irving Diamond ; Hattie, wife of John 
Gray, of Apalachin,and Charles H. Mr. Morehouse died February 
14, 1887, and Mrs. Morehouse died May i, 1887. Emily married 
John B. Jones, March 14, 1850, by whom she has one daughter, 
Clara M., who married Edward J. Stout, now of Denver Col. 

James Garrett was born in 1781. In 1812 he, with his wife 
Elizabeth, sailed from Belfast, Ireland, and first settled near the 
High Lands on the Hudson. In 1818 they started for the Wyom- 
ing Valley, but while passing down the Susquehanna, in the town 
of Tioga, one of his horses became lame and he settled about 
three miles north of Smithboro, on the farm now owned by his 
grandson William H. Johnson, where he lived until his death, 
which occured in 1871. They had two daughters, Eliza, who 
married John Y. Smith, and Maria Jane, who married John S. 
Johnson. 

Abijah Russell came from Kent, Putnam county, to Tioga, in 
1853, and located on the farm now owned by Rev. Ziba Evans. 
He married Eliza, daughter of Josephas Barrott, of West Newark, 
by whom he had six children — Van Ness, of Owego, Holmes, of 
Tioga, Emily, wife of Williston Hunt, of Nichols, Rosalia, wife of 
Charles Scott, Howard, deceased, and Hetty A., wife of Charles 
Catlin, of Owego. Emily married first John S. Orcott and has 
one child, EUaM. 

Henry Primrose, son of Jacob and Martha (Runyon) Primrose, 
was born February 4, 1794, and married Mary, daughter of Peter 
and Eleanor Johnson, October 4, 1815. They had ten children, 
viz.: William, born Mays, 1817, died June 10, 1840; James, now of 
Barton, January, 21, 1819; Betsey J., of Tioga Centre, January 
6, 1821; Nellie A., October 4, 1822, died October 21, 1822; Orpha 
W., August 28, 1823 ; Peter J., July i, 1828, now of Washington 
Territory; Jacob, October i, 1830, now of Menoinee, Mich.; 
Martha, wife of Thomas Johnson, of Tioga Center, December 7, 



474 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



1833 ; Mary E., wife of James Williams, of Valejo, Cal., March 4, 
1839; ^"<^ Clarissa, wife of Edward McDonald, of Tioga Center, 
April 13, 1841. Mr. Primrose was a founder of Methodism in the 
town of Tioga, and a preacher and leader of the people of that 
denomination. 

Joseph Winters, the late postmaster at Tioga Center, was born 
in Orange county, N.Y., April 2, 1820, and came to Tioga in i860, 
where he remained until his death, recently. Mr. Winters mar- 
ried Julia A. Carpenter, for his for first wife, and for his second wife 
her sister, Elizabeth. Of his ten children, Judson B., is of the firm 
of Hyde & Winters, of Owego : Joseph E., is a practicing physi- 
cian of New York city ; Edgar, is of the firm of Starkey & Win- 
ters, of Owego, and Byron L., a law student in New York city. 

Oren Waterman was born at Smithboro, March 25, 1828, and 
has always been a resident of the town, except a few years spent 
in Nichols. His father, James, came to Smithboro with his par- 
ents, John and Lucretia Waterman, in 1800. Qren married Sarah 
Wolverton and has five children. 

Jared Foote, son of Ichabod, was born in Connecticut, Janu- 
ary 22, 1789, married Sally Scott, April 2, 18 10, and located in 
Delaware county, N. Y., where all of his seven children wei e born. 
In 1837 he removed with his family to Tioga, locating at what is 
known as Goodrich Settlement. His children were as follows : 
Alfred, born, October 22, 1811, married Margaret Grout, and died 
in May, 1885; Rebecca, born April 16, 1814, died March 24, 1843; 
Jared A., born May 11, 1817 ; Sally A., born July 26, 1819, died 
in 1871 ; Lyman B., born March 24, 1822; Elmira, born May 21, 
1825 ; John, born October 11, 1826. Mrs. Jared Foote, Sr., died 
June 6, 1852, and for his second wife Mr. Foote married Sally A. 
Stiles, May 3, 1854, who died in the winter of 1886-S7. Mr. Foote 
died May 6, 1875. 

Stephen W. Jones, from Stockbridge, Mass., came to Tioga in 
1807, locating upon the farm now owned by his grandson, Horace, 
on road 28. He had a family of six children, only one of whom, 
Mrs. Sarah Payne, of Waverly, N. Y., is living. Stephen P., the 
only one of the three sons who located permanently in the vicin- 
ity, married Fidelia Farnham, who bore him three children, Ste- 
phen W,, Horace and Charles E. Horace married Rachel 
Anthony, November 24, 1857, who bore him four children, and 
died March 14, 1886. The children are Carrie (Mrs. N. B.Whitley), 
of Tavares, Fla.; George E. of the same place; Minnie, and 
Grace G. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 475 



John Whitley, from Vermont, located in the north part of Can- 
dor, in 1816. He had a family of thirteen children, only one of 
whom, Mrs. Lydia Brearly, of Caroline Centre, is living. His son, 
Joel S., who was six years old when his father came to Candor, 
located in Tioga in 1850, on road thirteen, where he died March 
20, i886. He married for his first wife Miss Hoffman, who died 
in 1843. Fo'' his second wife he married Emily Anderson, in 
1844, who survives him. His two children are Arthusa P. (Mrs, 
Andrew Jewett), of Elmira, and Judson M., of Tioga. 

Ira Anderson came with his family, from Warren, Rutland 
county, Vt, in 1810, and located in Candor, upon the farm now 
occupied by his grandson, Philander. He married Susan An- 
drews, who bore him seven children, Almira, Polly, Charlotte, 
Amarilla (Mrs. John Wolverton), of Candor, Johnson, Marshall, 
and Daniel, Amarilla being the only one now living. Daniel, 
born March 18, iSoo, married Fidelia Frisbie, who bore him six 
children, Chester, Mary, Charlotte, Ezra, Frederick and Edwin. 
Ezra moved to Tioga in 1866, and now resides on road 12. He 
married Laura Gould, in January, 1866, and has three children. 
Marshall married Hannah Harris, who bore him eight children, 
James M., Stephen, Mariette, Albert, Amos, John, Eliza, and 
Enos. James M. came to Tioga, in 1880, from Candor, and 
resides on road 12. He married Mary H. Easton and has two 
children living, Willis D. and John J. 

Harris Jewett, born at Chenango Forks, N. Y., October 18, 
1804, and located in Berkshire in 1830, upon the farm now owned 
by Walter Jewett. In 1854, he moved to Tioga, locating upon 
the farm he now occupies, on road 9. Mr. Jewett married 
Lucinda Ford, September 11, 1832, who bore him five children, 
three of whom are living, viz.: Charles F., born Occober 2, 1834; 
William A., born June 20, 1842 ; and Henry M., born October 
24, 1850. Mrs. Jewett died July 21, 1868. 

Lewis Lounsbury, from Connecticut, born February 21, 1794, 
was the first settler upon the farm now occupied by Mrs. Mary 
Lounsbury, in 1815. He married Charry Clark, December 12, 
1 8 16, who bore him eight children, five of whom are living, two 
in this town, Clark and Sheldon. Clark married Mary J. How- 
land, February, 6, 1849, and has two children, Cornelia and 
Harriet A., teachers. Lewis died January 11, 1861. Lewis, Jr., 
born December 10, 1820, married Mary Casterline, June 14, 1853, 
who bore him three children, Anson, John and Amy. Lewis, Jr., 
died April 24, 1887, and Mrs. Lounsbury occupies the homestead, 



476 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



with her children. Sheldon, son of Lewis, was born November 
6, 1837, married Sarah J. Moe, May 8, 1878, and has three chil- 
dren. He resides on road 61. 

Jonathan Emerson, from Albany county, N. Y., was the first 
settler upon the farm now owned by his son David B., about 
1822. He married Mary Harlin, who bore him four children, 
Samuel H., Chester, Mary (Mrs. Alexander Dufi[), and David B. 
The eldest son, Samuel H., married Sarah Duncan and has three 
children. Jonathan died October i, 1885, and his widow still 
survives him. 

W. Hulse Shaw is One of the prominent farmers in the town. 
He came here from Orange county, N. Y., a few years ago. He 
was a soldier in the war of the rebellion, is president of the Tioga 
County Agricultural Society, was Democratic candidate for 
member of assembly, in 1885. He is interested in raising valuable 
live-stock. 

Maj. Richard Spendley was for many years a prominent and 
wealthy resident of the town. He was one of the active Repub- 
licans of the town and county, and was often a delegate to state 
and other conventions. He was at one time supervisor. He re- 
moved to Salamanca a few years ago. 

Henry Bogart was born in Ulster county, April 13, 1830, and 
came to Tioga in 1865. He married Sarah E. Cook, July 14, 
1856, and has four children, Eugene D., Elmer E., Arthur and 
Earl. 

We quote the following interesting matter from Judge Avery's 
"Susquehanna Valley" papers, published in 1853-54: 

" This town, also, has the honor of having been the place of 
residence, for many of the later years of his life, of the distin- 
guished patriot, Josiah Cleaveland, who gained his first laurels 
in the memorable battle of Bunker Hill. In June, 1843, he re- 
turned to the scene of his early heroism, and joined in the cele- 
bration of the completion of the monument which his grateful 
countrymen had reared : and there, within a few days after the 
commemoration of that event, surrounded bv all the hallowing 
associations of the time and place, he resigned his soul into the 
hands of Him who gave it, by a remarkable and impressive 
providence, at the foot of the storied hill upon which his fame so 
proudly rested. His remains repose, in honorable burial, at 
Mount Auburn. 

" An Indian burying-ground extended along the brow of the 
cliff, on the westerly bank of the Owego creek, in this town, upon 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 477 



the homestead premises of Messrs. J. Piatt, and C. F. Johnson. 
It was a favorite burial place. Mrs. Whitaker narrates that upon 
the death of Ka-nau kwis, whose name appears upon the Indian 
■document, somewhat varied from the one given by her, he was 
brought to this place. Where he died she does not state, but 
Mrs. Williams recollects to have heard her father say that he re- 
ceived his death-wound at Tioga Point. His remains must 
therefore have beep transported from that place to this favorite 
spot of interment, a distance of twenty-one miles. Although 
many Indian graves have been found upon the site of Owego, no 
indications have been there exhibited of an appropriation so ex- 
clusive for Indian burial in its ordinary mode, as the extended 
brow of this cliff. The rounded Indian burial mou»d, near the 
intersection of Paige and River streets, was formed either by its 
having been made the place of deposit for a large collection of 
remains upon their removal from original places of interment, or 
perhaps by the burial of a number of warriors who may have 
fallen in battle. It was not an ordinary Indian burial place. 

" Many Indian graves were also found near the bank of the 
river, a short distance below Cassel's cove. The remains 
were found, here, in the usual posture, surrounded by the cus- 
tomary implements of the chase, and ornaments such as were 
usually deposited along with the body which they had contri- 
buted to support and adorn in life. But for this custom of, our 
Indian predecessors very few of those articles, or of those of their 
domestic use, would have been now within our reach. The 
key which they have furnished to a store of Iroquois usages and 
antiquities, but for that national funeral rite, would have been 
kept from our hands. 

" At the time of the pioneer settlement of this town, the evenly- 
wooded^ hill, sloping southerly upon the homestead of Mr. John 
Dubois, was found entirely stripped of timber, bearing the ap- 
pearance of having been burned over and thoroughly cleared. 
It was shrubless as well as denuded of its trees. The even and 
remarkably uniform 'second growth' which now covers it, clear- 
ly shows this to be a fact, and corroborates the account. 

"About twenty-two years since, in the easterly part of this 
town, upon the premises known in the olden time as the residence 
and home property of David Pixley, Jr., situated upon the west- 
erly side of the Owego creek, something less than half a mile 
below the homestead of Mr. Ephraim Leach, a singular discovery 
was made. A large brass kettle was disclosed by the plough. 



478 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



literally filled with articles of various kinds, of ancient appearance 
and manufacture, and doubtless of no little value to the person 
who had taken the pains to bury them there. At the time of 
their deposit that immediate vicinity was thickly wooded, and 
well selected to avoid observation and escape discovery. Among- 
other contents was a copper tea kettle, inside of which was found 
a pewter vessel, filled with untrimmed rifle balls, just as they 
came from the moulds. The other articles were an old-fashioned 
and peculiarly shaped hammer, a parcel of pewter plates of two 
sizes, the smaller ones showing no marks of use, bright, and un- 
dimmed by corrosion, and upon them the word ' London' plain- 
ly impressed ; a peculiarly- shaped iron or steel instrument, 
about six or eight inches in length, pointed, and like the head of 
an arrow or spear, except that it had a single barb about two 
inches long, on one side only ; at its other extremity was a socket^, 
apparently intended for a handle. 

" This is an enumeration of a part only of the articles there 
found, but sufficiently complete to start many a conjecture as to 
their history, the time when they were secreted, whether in the 
revolutionary era, or anterior or subsequent to it. But, what- 
ever may be our suppositions upon the subject, they can never 
take any more satisfactory form than that of mere conjecture. It 
maybe mentioned, that at many of the earlier councils and treat- 
ies held by the Iroquois with the agents of the English govern- 
ment, during our colonial history, presents, similar to the major 
part of these, were distributed profusely among the natives, for 
the purpose of conciliating them, individually, and to keep bright 
the ' covenant-chain' with the confederacy. It would not be at 
all strange, if some of the Indian occupants of our valley, pre- 
vious to their fleeing to the frontier upon the approach of Gens. 
Clinton and Sullivan, adopted this as a mode of secreting these 
articles from their white invaders, hoping to resume possession 
of them after their enemies had retired from the Susquehanna, 
Death or the fortunes of war might have prevented a realization 
of their hopes ; or, if they returned, the-precise spot where they 
were secreted, might have been forgotten : and thus these 
mementos of the past were left to slumber on until accident 
disclosed them to view." 

The comparative growth of the town is shown by the following 
figures, from the census enumerations for the several enumerations 
since the town was organized: 1810,500; 1820,1,810; 1825,991; 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 479 

1830, 1,411; 1835,1,987; 1845,2,778; 1850,2,839; 1855,3,027; 
1860,3,202; 1865,3,094; 1870,3,272; 1875,3,162; 1880,3,192. 

Initial Events.— T\\Q first log house was built by Major Wm. 
Ransom, who also built the first saw-mill, about 1792. 

Major Ransom set out the first apple-tree, bringing it with him 
in a boat from Wyoming. He set out the first orchard on the 
west bank of the creek, and had the first nursery. George Tall- 
cott, when on an exploring tour through the country, in 1790, 
says this was the first orchard he had seen between here and 
Albany. 

Colonel David Pixley built the first grist-mill on Owego creek, 
in what is called to this day Pixley 's Channel, in or before 1793. 
Previous to this and until the erection of Fitch's mill, four miles 
above Binghamton, in 1790, the settlers in this locality were 
obliged to go to Wilkesbarre with their grain by means of canoes, 
on the Susquehanna, which usually occupied about two weeks. 
The Mattesons very soon after 1793 built a mill at Canewana. 

The first tavern was built of logs, and was kept by Samuel 
Ransom.- The first framed house was built by Prince Alden. 

A Mr. Dcnio was the first blacksmith, and had a shop at Tioga 
Centre. John Hill was the first carpenter. 

Lodowyck Light built the first tannery, using dug-outs for 
vats, which was afterwards enlarged as a tannery and shoe-shop 
by his son, Henry Light. 

Major William Ransom and Rachel Brooks, in 1792, took 
upon themselves matrimonial vows, and no record can be found 
earlier of marriages in the town. 

The first recorded death is that of David Pixley, who died 
June 6, 1799, aged thirty-five years, and who was a son of Colonel 
Pixley. He was buried in the wilderness, and the Tioga cemetery 
occupies the same locality. 

The first cemetery was the one called the Canfield cemetery, and 
is situated near the residence of Amos Canfield. 

Rev. David Jayne was preaching here before 1796. The first 
camp-meeting was held on the hill on Lodowyck Light's farm, in 
1807, and this hill was afterwards called by the irreverent ones 
of Pipe Creek, " Holy Hill." The first church was built on this 
place in 1812, and was a Union church. 

The first school-house was built on Samuel Ransom's farm, 
before 1800. 

The first store was kept by John Light and John Crise, at' 
Smithboro. 



48o 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 



A postoffice was^first kept at Smithboro, bv Isaac Boardman, 
in 1812, and by John DuBois, very soon after, at Tioga Centre. 
Stephen Leonard, of Owego, had the first mail contract through 
from Owego to Elmira, and a mail was delivered once a week. 
Ebenezer Meckin drove the first mail-coach through for Leonard. 

The first ferry that crossed the Susquehanna river in this town 
was owned by John Decker and Gideon Cortright, who lived on 
Coxe's Patent as early as 1800. 

Organization. — It is impossible to give the exact date of the first 
town meeting, nor a list of the officers there chosen. The records 
of the town were taken to Owego in 1834, to be used there to set- 
tle some point in a law-suit, and were destroyed by a fire that 
occurred in that village. For this reason we print the following 
list of officers. The list of supervisors was obtained from the 
county clerk's office, from 1795 to 18 [3, as from the town of 
Owego, and from 1813 to 1828 from the town of Tioga. No 
record can be found from that time until 1835, since which these 
officers are given complete : 



Supervisors. 



1795. Emmanuel Coryell, 

1796. Lodowyck Light, 

1797. Samuel Tinkhani, 

1798. John Smyth, 
1799-1800. Jesse Miller, 
1801-3. Joshua Ferris, 
1804-9. Emmanuel Coryell, 
1 8 10- 1 2. Noah Goodrich,. 
1813-17. Gamaliel H. Ba'rstow, 
1818-20. Emmanuel Coryell, 
1821-23. Wright Dunham, 

1824. Ziba Miller, 

1825. George Matson, 
1826-27. Ephraim Leach, 
1828. Erastus Goodrich, 
1835-40. Jesse Turner, 
1841-43. Erastus Goodrich, 

1844. Jesse Turner, 

1845. Israel S. Hoyt. 



1846- 

1848, 

1849- 

1853- 
1854. 
1855- 
1856. 
1857- 

1859- 
i860. 
1861. 
1862- 
.1865. 
1866- 
1871- 
1874- 
1884- 
1887. 



47. Jesse Turner, 

David Taylor, 
52. Gilbert Strang, 

William Ransom, 

David Taylor, 

David Earle, 

Gilbert Strang, 
-58. Richard Spendley, 

Harris Jewett, 

Richard Spendley, 

Abel Dubois, 
-64. Gilbert Strang, 

L. B. West, 
-70. W. H. Bristol, 
-73. Josiah Pickering, 
-83. Stephen W. Leach, 
-86. Jonathan C. Latimer, 

Stephen W. Leach. 



Town Clerks. 



1835. Charles 'Ransom, 
1836-39. Gilbert Strang, 
1840. Robert C. Cole, 



1841. Orin Dubois, 
1842-47. Gilbert Strang, 
1848. Lott P. Luce, 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 



481 



1849. Nicholas Schoonover, Jr., 
1850-51. Cornelius D. Hoff, 

1852. Erastus Hoff. 

1853. Forman S. Higbe, 

1854. Lott P. Luce, 

1855. Elisha D. Ransom, 



1856-57. Thos. F. Goodenough, 
1858. Gilbert Strang, 
1859-77. Moses Chart, 
1878., Chauncey J. Goodenough, 
1879-87, Moses Chart. 



Justices of the Peace. 



David Jayne, 
Solomon Jones, 
David Jayne, 
Erastus Goodrich, 
Robert C. Cole, 
Sylvester Knapp, 
Israel S. Hoyt, 
Robert C. Cole, 
Jared Foot, 
Amos Canfield, 
Cutler Woodruff, 
Elijah Cleveland, 
David Earle, 
Sylvester Knapp, 
Stephen W. Leach, 
Israel S. Hoyt, 
George L. Light, 
Stephen W, Leach, 
David Earle, 
Joel S. Whitley, 
Israel S. Hoyt, 
Edwin H. Schoonover, 
Joel S Whitley, 
Francis F. Miller, 
Israel S. Hoyt, 
Thomas F. Goodenough, 
Stephen J. Rider, 
Cornelius C. Yontz. 



Luther B. West, 
John H. Yontz, 
Noah Goodrich, 
William C. Randall, 
John H. Yontz, 
Noah Goodrich, , 
Walter C. Randall, 
Luther B. West, 
Charles E. Ransom, 
Noah Goodrich, 
William J. Drake, 
William W. Giles, 
Charles Bonham, 
Noah Goodrich, 
William J. Drake, 
Edgar Taylor, 
Walter C. Randall, 
David Earle, 
Noah Goodrich, 
Ira Hoyt, 

Walter C. Randall, 
Ira Hoyt, 
David Earle, 
Noah Goodrich, 
Deloss Goodenough, 
Peter Turner, 
Abner G. Hill. 



Internal Improvements. — A ferry was used across the river 
before 1800, by Decker & Cortright, near where Avery Horton 
lives.' One was started by Caleb Lyons, in 1811, the landing 
being on the Eli Light farm. A wire ferry was constructed by 
Col. William Ransom, in 1842. Smithboro & Nichols Bridge 
Company was incorporated April 18, 1829, and Isaac Boardman, 
Nehemiah Piatt, and John Coryell were appointed commission- 
ers. The bridge was soon after built, and in the spring following 
its erection was washed away. The second was erected March 
17, 1865. Three spans were, carried away by the Whitneyville 



482 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



mill in a freshet, and it was repaired the same season. On Octo- 
ber 20, 1865, the new part was entirely blown down by a heavy 
gale, and was rebuilt in forty days. March 17, 1868, at eight 
o'clock, A. M., two spans of the south end were carried away by 
a span Of the Owego bridge coming down against it. In 1B80, it 
was again destroyed, and has not been rebuilt. 

The Erie and the Southern Central railroads run through the 
town, following the Susquehanna river, having depots at Tioga 
Centre and Smithbofo. 



VILLAGES. 

Tioga Center is a small village of, approximately, four hun- 
dred inhabitants, situated about mid-way of the southern 
boundary of the town, at the mouth of Pipe creek. It is a station 
on the New York, Lake Erie & Western and the Southern Cen- 
ttal railways. It has two churches, two hotels, a handsome 
union school building, a tannery, four stores, a postoffice, two 
blacksmith shops, a steam flouring mill, three steam saw-mills, 
two shoe shops, a resident physician and a drug store. 

Tanning has been a thriving industry in Tioga Center since 
1869. A tannery was built in 1868, by Ransom, Maxwell & Co. 
for a sole leather tannery. The firm was dissolved a short time 
thereafter, Col. William Ransom becoming the owner of the 
property. In June, 1869, he sold the tannery to J. & P. Quirin, 
who came from Boston and entirely overhauled it and converted 
it into an upper-leather tannery, and began the tanning of calf- 
skins. January 3, 1871, it was destroyed by fire ; but through 
the progressiveness of the citizens of Tioga Center, the structure 
was again erected by subscription, and by the first of March, 
1871, the tannery was again in full operation. October 31, 1871, 
one of the boilers in the tannery exploded. The explosion oc- 
curred in the morning, immediately after the blowing of the 
seven o'clock whistle. The boiler was hurled through the beam- 
house, which is 150 feet long, and through the lime-house, into 
an open area, where it fell, upwards of 300 feet from the arch 
upon which it was resting. A German, Thersal Van Order, 
was killed outright. Philip Quirin, one of the proprietors, was 
so badly injured that he died in a few days, and S. Edware Mills 
was injured so that he is maimed for life. Several others were 
injured, more or less seriously. The tannery has a capacity for 
tanning 300,000 calf skins annually. They are tanned here and 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 483 



transported to Boston and finished and marketed. The firm now' 
consists of J. G. Quirin & Co. Owing to commercial depression 
during the past few years, the tannery has not been operated to 
anything like its fullest capacity as formerly, and during the last 
year (1887) very little, if any tanning has been attempted by the 
proprietors. 

The steam flouring-mill is situate upon Pipe creek, on the site 
where the first saw-mill was erected, by Major William Ransom, 
in 1792. It was changed to a grist-mill in 1840, and in 1884 it 
was changed to a steam flouring-mill. 

J. C. Latimer's steam saw-mill is located in Tioga Centre, upon 
the east side of the creek. It was built in 1820, and was a water- 
power mill until 1873, when it was equipped with steam. It was 
burned in October, 1879, but was immediately rebuilt.* It also 
contains a feed-run and a shingle-machine. It has the capacity 
for sawing 2,000,000 feet of lumber annually. 
■ The steam saw-mill of John E. PembletOn is also situate in 
Tioga Centre, about a half a mile up Pipe creek. It was built in 
1834, by J. Schoonover and Andrew Todd, and sold in 1838 to 
Nealy & Smith, and was subsequently purchased by John G. 
Smith. It was a waler-power mill until 1872, when it was 
changed to steam. It has connected with it lath and shingle 
machines, and' is one of the best equipped mills along Pipe creek. 

In 1879, Charles H. Tribe erected a steam planing-mill near 
the Southern Central railway depot, and afterward added to it 
a sawing department, so that now it is a complete and fully 
equipped steam saw and planing-mill. 

The standing timber in the town of Tioga, however, has been 
so depleted that the lumbering industry of the town is rapidly 
waning, and beyond doubt a few short years hence saw-mills 
in Tioga will be among the things of the past. 

Halsey Valley. — In about 1790, Thomas, Nicholson, a sur- 
veyor, was employed to make the first partition survey of lands, 
belonging to the state, lying back from the Susquehanna. He 
bought 2,000 acres, including what is now known as Halsey 
Valley. He died in 1792, and a daughter was born to Mrs. 
Nicholson a short time after his decease, who was the lawful heir 
to this land. She died at eighteen years of age, and diiring her 
life this land became known as " Girl's Flat," a name it held for 
many years. Mrs. Nicholson became the wife of Zephaniah 
Halsey, whose children inherited the land by title through their 
mother; hence the name " Halsey Valley." It' was not until 



484 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



about 1825 that these lands began to be sold and settled upon; 
then six hundred acres were sold to Seely Brothers, afterwards 
to Joseph West and Brother ; four hundred to Fresher Skillings, 
Van Nortunk, and others. The village is situated in the north- 
west part of the town, and partly in the town of Barton, and 
contains two churches, — Christian and Methodist; the latter 
being in Barton,— a school-house, a postoffice, three stores, two 
blacksmith-shops, two cooper-shops, and two physicians. 

Luther B. West has long been a merchant here, and one of the 
most prominent of the section. It must ever be a pleasure to con- 
template the life of a self-made man,— one who, by strict adher- 
ence to a well defined plan of action, converts adverse circum- 
stances into successful and honorable results. Such, in brief, is 
that of Mr. West. 

His parents, Joseph and Sally (Bliven) West, whose ancestors 
were active participants in the revolutionary war, emigrated from 
Fort Ann, Washington county, N. Y., to Spencer, bringing their 
effects in a large covered wagon, which was drawn by two yoke 
of oxen and one horse, at a speed of about fifteen miles each day, 
through the then wilderness country, camping out and sleeping 
at night in their wagon. 

Arriving at Spencer in the fall of 1818, they began housekeep- 
ing in rented rooms, in the court-house, but soon after, a home was 
made south of the village, upon lands purchased by Mr. West, 
while he worked at his trade, that of carpenter and joiner. In 
1826, he rented of Andrew Purdy, and occupied his tavern and 
farm in Spencer for ten years, and conducted the business until 
April, 1836, when he removed to Halsey Valley (then called Girl's 
Flats), on a tract of land purchased in 1832, of Isaac and Enos 
Briggs and John D. Seeley, upon which he had made some im- 
provements while living in Spencer. Here he resided, clearing 
land, lumbering and farming until March, 1857, when he died, 
leaving a widow who died in March, 1880, and four children,. viz.: 
Charles, Luther B., Sarah J., who was the wife of Nicholas 
Schoonmaker, and Warren B. 

Luther Bliven West,, the subject of this sketch, was born at 
Spencer, April 13, i823,andattended the district school until thir- 
teen years of age, when, by accompanying his father who at this 
time moved to Girl's Flats — then mostly a wilderness — his educa- 
tional advantages were ended, excepting a few weeks attendance 
during the following winter. 

The pupils of the common schools of to-day may profitably 



484 TOWN OF TIOGA. 

about 1825 that these lands began to be sold and settled upon; 
then six hundred acres were sold to Seely Brothers, afterwards 
to Joseph West and Brother ; four hundred to Fresher Skillings, 
Van Nortunk, and others. The village is situated in the north- 
west part of the town, and partly in the town of Barton, and 
contains two churches, — Christian and Methodist ; the latter 
being in Barton,^a school-house, a postoffice, three stores, two 
blacksmith-shops, two cooper-shops, and two physicians. 

Luther B. West has long been a merchant here, and one of the 
most prominent of the section. It must ever be a pleasure to con- 
template the life of a self-made man, — one who, by strict adher- 
ence to a well defined plan of action, converts adverse circum- 
stances into successful and honorable results. Such, in brief, is 
that of Mr. West. 

His parents, Joseph and Sally (Bliven) West, whose ancestors 
were active participants in the revolutionary war, emigrated from 
Fort Ann, Washington county, N. Y., to Spencer, bringing their 
effects in a large covered wagon, which was drawn by two yoke 
of oxen and one horse, at a speed of about fifteen miles each day, 
through the then wilderness country, camping out and sleeping 
at night in their wagon. 

Arriving at Spencer in the fall of 1818, they began housekeep- 
ing in rented rooms, in the court-house, but soon after, a home was 
made south of the village, upon lands purchased by Mr. West, 
while he worked at his trade, that of carpenter and joiner. In 
1826, he rented of Andrew Purdy, and occupied his tavern and 
farm in Spencer for ten years, and conducted the business until 
April, 1836, when he removed to Halsey Valley (then called Girl's 
Flats), on a tract of land purchased in 1832, of Isaac and Enos 
Briggs and John D. Seeley, upon which he had made some im- 
provements while living in Spencer. Here he resided, clearing 
land, lumbering and farming until March, 1857, when he died, 
leaving a widow who died in March, 1880, and four children.viz.: 
Charles, Luther B., Sarah J., who was the wife of Nicholas 
Schoonmaker, and Warren B. 

Luther Bliven West, the subject of this sketch, was born at 
Spencer, April 13, 1823, and attended the district school until thir- 
teen years of age, when, by accompanying his father who at this 
time moved to Girl's Flats — then mostly a wilderness — his educa- 
tional advantages were ended, excepting a few weeks attendance 
during the following winter. 

The pupils of the common schools of to-day may profitably 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 485 



contrast the educationaladvantagesand collateral accompaniments 
they enjoy, with those furnished by the " People's College " of a 
halt century ago. To assist in making the comparison, it may be 
stated that the architectural features of the Girl's Flats school- 
house were those common to structures of that class throughout 
the country, viz. : the building was constructed of rough logs, 
the spaces between which being filled with mud and sticks, a 
single section of window sash in each of three sides of the build- 
mg admitting the light, door, swinging on wooden hinges and 
was opened by pulling a string attached to a wooden latch. A 
single slab set upon wooden pegs inserted in two-inch holes, con- 
stituted a seat — no support being given to the pupil's back. 
Abundant warmth and ventilation were secured by burning logs 
four to six feet in length, in a large stone fire place and chim- 
ney, which logs were usually cut by the boys on Saturday 
afternoons, for use during the following week. The principal 
text books in use were Cobb's spelling-book and Daboll's Arith- 
metic. That nature and the school-master were in league 
was painfully evident to all, for, from the surrounding forest 
was obtained a never-ending supply of tough young beeches, 
which, under the skillful guidance of the latter, demonstrated his 
superiority, inculcated feelings of av/e if not reverence, main- 
tained discipline and were practical definitions of thoroughness 
arid Hberality. 

Remaining with his father and actively assisting in clearing 
land and lumbering until the spring of 1844. when, being of legal 
age, he commenced business for himself bjj^ farming land for a 
share. 

On June g, 1844, he married Martha L., daughter of William 
and Laura Fresher, who were among the first settlers in the 
Valley, and had to contend for possession with bears, wolves, 
and panthers that then infested the forest. They raised a large 
family of children, of whom Mrs. West, the youngest daughter, 
was born in the town of Barton, June r, 1824. 

Not satisfied with the results obtained by farming, in the spring 
of 18465 without other capital than energy, and without practical 
knowledge of the business, he purchased a small stock of goods 
and opened a store at Halsey Valley. The country being new 
and money scarce, trade was conducted mostly for barter in 
staves, shingles and lumber, the outlet to market being either by 
canal at Ithaca, a distance of twenty-five miles, or by rafting on 
the Susquehanna river — eight miles distant — to Fort Deposit and 



486 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Baltimore, Md. After many hard struggles, a fair business was" 
established. In 1849, he purchased, and in connection with 
Eliakim D. Hoyt, put steam-power in a grist and flouring mill, 
and manufactured flour and sawed shingles in large quantities 
for market ; also bad a saw-mill, and by purchase placed upon 
the market lumber made by other mills. In 1854, as the country 
became better settled and improved, the mercantile branch of the 
business was enlarged, a new store opened, and his two brothers/ 
Charles and Warren B., admitted to a partnership that was soon 
afterward dissolved. For many years after, he conducted alone 
a large and successful business, which was gradually closed out 
as more important matters claimed his attention. 

In 1862, he was elected justice of the peace, and continued in 
office by re-election for twelve consecutive years, when he 
declined to serve longer. During this period, he was for several 
terms elected justice of th« count}' sessions. 

By special order. No. 528, dated August 15, 1863, issued by 
the Commander-in-chief, Horatio Seymour, Governor of New' 
York, he was authorized to raise a regiment of infantry of the 
National Guard in the county of Tioga, and be commissioned 
colonel thereof, and immediately began the work. After partly 
organizing several companies he was obliged to abandon it and 
resign, b} reason of the severe and protracted illness of his wife. 

In 1864, he was appointed one of a committee to procure vol- 
unteers, and financial agent to fill tl'.e quota assigned to the town 
of Tioga, under the call of the President for troops. To carry- 
out the work necessitated the issuance of bonds amounting to 
$10,000.00, which debt was paid the following year, leaving the 
town free from any bonded debt, such as most adjoining towns 
were loaded with for years thereafter, and a continual source of 
annoyance to the tax-payers. The prompt payment of this war 
debt was largely due to his persistent efforts and advocacy of the 
principle, that the payment of a debt made when the currency 
was inflated should not be deferred until the currency became 
contracted. In this instance, as is too often the case, where 
individual effort is exerted for the public good, the scheme was" 
for a time bitterly denounced ; but its merits were soon recog- 
nized and generally acknowledged. He regards this as his 
masterpiece in financiering. 

In 1865, he was elected supervisor of the town of Tioga, and on 
January 18, 1865, he, with others, organized the Tioga National 
Bank, at Owego. Being one of the principal stockholders, he 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 48/ 



was elected to a directorship, and in February, 1869, to the vice- 
presidency — to both of which positions he has been annually 
re-elected to the present time. 

Besides the enterprises before mentioned, he has been for the 
past twenty-five years extensively engaged in farming and dairy- 
ing, and latterly is giving much attention to investments in im- 
proved farms in Kansas and Nebraska. To promoting the school 
and other interests of his neighborhood he has given much of his 
time and attention. Has always been identified with the princi- 
ples of Democracy, and is a practical temperance man. In 1864, 
he embraced the cause of religion and united with the Methodist 
Episcopal church at Halsey Valley. 

Upwards of forty-two years of uninterrupted enjoyment of mar- 
ried life had elapsed, when, on November 6, 1886, Death claimed 
the wife who had witnessed and assisted him in his early strug- 
gles, and had shared, but too briefly, the fruits of their triumphs 
over obstacles that would have discouraged others less persever- 
ing. She was a typical wife, a womanly woman and a mother 
whose greatest pride was her children, of whom there were five — 
three daughters and two sons — their births, etc., occurring as 
■follows: Olive, July 20, 1847, married Charles O. Wood, Novem- 
ber 2, 1870, and died August 20, 1872 [ Alice, July 20, 1850, mar- 
ried Dr. Charles E. HoUenbeck, December 29, 1875 ; Ida, 
December 31, 1858; Grant M., April 19, 1864; and Norman L., 
February 16, 1867. 

Personally, Mr. West is a man of fine physique, somewhat 
military in his bearing, easily approached, an entertaining con- 
varsationalist well informed on all general subjects, and an ac- 
knowledged authority on all matters with which he has business 
relations. Trained in the rugged school ^of self-education, his 
judgment of events and men seldom misleads him. Sell-reliant, 
sagacious, bold yet cautious, practical, methodical, always using 
experience to sharpen foresight and bver all a marked individual- 
ism easier recognized than described, are among his prominent 
traits of character, the judicious exercise of which has brought 
the abundant prosperity he now enjoys. Life to him seems most 
enjoyable, and he is seen at his best when absorbed in a business 
problem. 

Ira Hoyt was of English descent, his ancestors settling at 
Danbury, Mass., at an early day. His grandfather, Nathaniel 
Hoyt, was an officer in the revolutionary army, and settled after 
the war at "Winchester, Conn. He was a farmer, and reared a 

32, 



488 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



large family. He died at the advanced age of eighty-eight years. 
Ira Hoyt, 2d, was born in Danbury, in 1797. He was twice 
married; and by his first wife were born to hitn five, by his 
second wife four, children. He died at the age of sevehty-seVeh, 
in 1864. Ira, the eldest child of Ira and Anna Hoyl, was born in 
Litchfield, Conn., September 9, 1821. His boyhood days were 
passed in attending the common school, and in laboring lipon the 
farms of his neighborhood, until he was twenty-one years'of age, 
when he married Miss Helen M. Roberts. The issue of this 
union was two children : Charles,' who died at the age of five 
years, and Josephine, who married John Hutchiris. Helen Hoyt 
died in 1862, aged thirty-five ye^rs. In 1864, Mr. Hoyt filled the 
vacancy in his home' by introducing therein as his wife Mrs. 
Hollenbeck, of Barton. In the year 1850, he removed to Tioga 
county, settling at Halsey Valley, which he has since made his 
home. Although by. occupation a cooper, he owns a small 
farm, and engages himself mainly in its care, and in the propa- 
gation of fish. In the latter enterprise he has been very success- 
ful, and owns a very fine pond, of which he is justly proud. 
For many years he has also been engaged in the manufacture of 
butter /packages, his factory being operated by both steam and 
water-power, and employing a number of men. 

Dr. Charles Hollenbeck was born in the town of Barton, a son 
of Richard and Lydia A. (Hyatt) Hollenbeck, June 4, 1850. He 
studied in the district schools, at Waverly Institute, at Eastman's 
Business College at Poughkeepsie, beginning the study of medi- 
cine at Bellevue Hospital Medical College, graduating in March, 
1874. He immediately began practice at Halsey Valley, where 
he has since been located. The Doctor married Alice West, 
daughter of Luther B. West, December 29, 1875. 

Smithboro is a small post village located in the southwestern 
part of. the town on the Susquehanna river, and on the N. Y. L. 
E. .& W. and the S. C. railroads. It has a church, a fine school 
building, several stores, two hotels, mechanic's shops, etc. 

Ezra Smith, after whom Smithboro was named, and who held 
letters patent, covering a large tract of land in this vicinity, came 
irom Bedford, Westchester county, N. Y., in 1791, and settled 
at Smiithboro, in the house on the corner where Walter C. Ran- 
dall now resides. He afterward sold his property and kept the 
Half- Way House, a well known tavern, mid-way between Ithaca 
and Owego. Isaac S. Broadman bought the property of Ezra 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 489 



Smith, at Smithboro, enlarged the house into a tavern ; this was 
the first tavern at Smithboro, and he the first tavern keeper. 

A family named Lyon settled at the ferry a short distance east 
of Smithboro ; Lyon was the first keeper of the ferry ; his house 
is still standing, on the west bank of the creek, just back of the 
house where Mrs. Eli Light resides, to which place it was moved 
from the middle of the present orchard. A family named Foun- 
tain settled in the same neighborhood. The Lyon house and the 
old Broadman tavern, the latter now much altered and improved, 
are the oldest buildings now standing in the vicinity of Smith- 
boro. At a later period Wait Smith came from Wyoming, about 
1800, and built the house which stood until 1865, where Houston 
Piatt's house now stands ; Ezekiel Newman came and* built the 
house where Mrs. Zebulon Bowman now resides ; Benjamin 
Smith came and built the house where Benjamin Lounsbury, Jr.,. 
now resides; James Schoonover, , Jr., came and built the house 
which Amos Lounsbury resided in for several years, and which 
was recently moved away and mostly torn down to make a place 
for his new residence ; Mrs. James Brooks, whose husband was 
a son of James Brooks, of Tioga Centre, who died in the war 
gf 181 2, built the house which is still standing on Meeting-House 
Hill, a short distance east of Smithboro. 

Beriah Mundy came about 1787, and settled where Mundy 
Schoonover now resides ; his house stood near the present house, 
but was afterward moved westward, across the creek, into the 
town of Barton, where it still stands, painted a brown color, and 
has been occupied for many years by the Barden family. 

Edward V. Poole, son of Daniel, whose ancestors were the 
founders of Weymouth, Mass., in 1635J was born April 3, 1826, 
at Manyunk, a suburb of Philadelphia, Pa. He attended Wyom- 
ing Seminary, Kingston, Pa., 1849-50. He has been a merchant 
and business man nearly all his life ; commenced in the lumber 
business at Beaumont, Pa., but afterward removed to Center 
Morelarid, Pa. He then removed to Mt. Carmel, 111., where he 
did a large mercantile and lumbering business. He then returned 
to Center Moreland, but soon after removed to Smithboro, in. 
1865, where he transacted a large mercantile business. He built 
a large, three-story, double store, which he occupied at Smith- 
boro, and which was burned. • He has been for many years one 
of the most successful business men of Tioga county. He mar- 
ried, September 11, 1850, Susan Carey, daughter of Samuel 
Carey, Esq., of Centre Moreland, Pa. Their children are Charles 



49° TOWN OF TIOGA. 



F., of Tioga Center; Emily A., deceased; Murry E.,. a law stu- 
dent and graduate of Cornell University, to whom we are in- 
"debted for many facts in this sketch of Tioga ; Clara I. (Mrs. 
Titus Baker); and Laura F. (Mrs. Thomas B. Campbell). 

Walter Crowley Randall was born October 15, 1828, in the 
town of Owego. He learned the shoemaker's trade, which he 
followed a great many years, 1835-65. He married, March i, 
1850, Amelia Carnochan. He settled first at Vestal, but soon 
removed to Campville, where he remained only a short time, and 
then moved to Smithboro, in 1852, when he was appointed bridge- 
Sceeper, a position he held until 1883, a period of thirty-one years. 
He commenced farming in 1865. which he followed three years. 
He then commenced the mercantile business, which he followed 
-eight years, then commenced farming again, in 1880, which he 
still follows. He was chiefly instrumental in founding the mason- 
ic lodge, at Smithboro, and was its first master, holding that 
■office several years, and being frequently sent as representative 
to the Grand Lodge. He has also been a justice of the peace, at 
different periods, for sixteen years. 

Strait's Corners is located on a branch of Pipe creek, on the 
north line of the town, lying partly in Candor. David Strait, 
from whom the place derives its name, settled here in 1825. The 
village contains two churches, — Christian and Baptist; the latter 
being in the town of Candor, — postoffice, school-house, store and 
blacksmith-shop. Its postofEce was established in 1853. 

Goodrich Settlement is located just across Owego creek, the 
corporation boundary of Owego on the west. Near by is the 
famous "Glenmary" place, now owned by Colonel Dorwin. 
This settlement has been the home for longer or shorter periods 
of N. P. Willis, the poet; Hon. Wheeler H. Bristol, state treas- 
urer; D. C. McCallum, formerly general superintendent of the 
Erie railroad ; Dr. Galloway, of the Electropathic Institute, of 
Philadelphia, Pa.; and Charles F. Johnson. 

German Settlement is a little hamlet east from Strait's Cor- 
ners, mostly in the town of Tioga, and was settled b)' Germans 
in 1830., 

Leach's Grist Mill, on road 28, -was built by Caleb Leach, in 
1806. Mr. Leach was a native of Plymouth, Mass.; early learned 
the trade of watch-maker; made the first twisted auger in the 
United States; built the Fairmount water- works, at Philadelphia, 
and had charge of the Manhattan water-works. When he came 
here, in 1806, he established a carding-mill and grist-mill. He 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 49 1 



spent his later years in Utica, where he died. The mill descended 
to Ephraim Leach, father of Stephen W., the present proprietor. 
It has four runs of stones, and has the capacity for grinding 
25,000 bushels per year. 

Stephen W. Jones' Saw-mill, on road i, was built by James 
Pumpelly, in 1827, and came into Mr. Jones' possession in 1872. 
The saw^mill has a circular-saw, and the capacity for sawing 
1,000,000 feet per year. The grist-mill has one run of stones, and 
does custom work. He also does planing, turning, etc. Employs 
two hands. 

James R. Willmott's Saw-mill is located on road 28, where he 
also has a plaster-mill and ice-houSe. 

CHURCHES. 

At a very early day religious services were held in dwelling- 
houses, barns, and school-houses, mostly by circuit preachers of 
the Methodist denomination, and Baptist ministers. In 1796 the 
Baptist church of New Bedford was organized with nine mem- 
(bers, partly from this town. Tioga was afterwards substituted 
ior New Bedford, and in 1847 it was again changed to the Tioga 
and Barton Baptist church, the histor}' of which will be found in 
the town of Barton. The Methodists were numerous, and held 
iservices in the Light neighborhood. Between April 14, i8o'5, arid 
the 1st of May, the eccentric Lorenzo Dow preached at Pipe 
'Creek, in the house of Apdrew Alden, with whom he stopped, 
tin the summer of 1807, Bishop Asbury presided at a camp-meet- 
•jngon the hill, where the Union church was afterwards built. In 
his " Life " is this statement : "After attending the General Con- 
ference' at Boston, on the ist of June, 1807, he started for the 
West by a new route, — that of the Mohawk, ihe Geneva, the 
»Chemung, and the Susquehanna. Turning south, he passed along 
the shores of Seneca lake, and down the lovely valley of the 
"Chemung to the Susquehanna, near Owego. He then descended 
that river to Wyoming." While here he stopped at the house of 
Lodowyck Light;. The Asbury camp-meeting grounds of Bar- 
ton, Tioga, and Nichols charge were located on the same farm. 

The Union church was built on this hill by both Methodists 
and Baptists, and used jointly by them until the lines of denomi- 
:national differences became so tightly drawn they could not agree; 
which differences were finally settled, as far as the church \vas 
concerned, in the summer of 1827, when it was struck by light- 



492 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



ning and entirely destroyed. This house; was thirty by forty feet^ 
with galleries round the entire building, and never finished; the 
lower portion, however, being lathed and plastered. 

Methodist Episcopal Church at Smithboro. — November 19, 1832, a 
meeting was held at the school-house in District No. 4, town of 
Tioga; to incorporate a society to be called the Methodist Epis- 
copal Society of Smithboro, John Light, Andrew Bonhani, and 
Benjamin V. Brooks as trustees. It was voted that the seal to be 
used by the trustees be the triangle, and a committee was appointed, 
to build a church. This committee entered into a contract with 
C. C. Yontz and Willard Cratsley to erect a church for $1,500. 
January 7, 1835, " It was resolved, that all orthodox societies of 
any denomination shall have the privilege of preaching at any 
tinje in the Smithboro church, when unoccupied, but none other, 
at any time." Its church edifice was erected in 1833. The build- 
ing was burned May 24, 1887. Rev. Luther Peck is the present 
pastor. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church on Ross Hill was organized with- 
thirty-six members in November, 1870, and its church edifice 
erected in the same year. Rev. A. B. Eckert was the first pastor ;: 
Rev. Luther Peck, the present one. 

Emmanuel Protestant Episcopal Church of Smithboro was organ- 
ized in 1866, and its church edifice erected in 1874. The first, 
vestry was composed of the following : wardens, John C. Gray 
and L. Burr Pearsall ; vestrymen, Gilbert Pearsall, G. O. Chase,. 
John C. Pearsall, Frederick C. Coryell, W. C. Randall and O. A. 
Barstow. The first rector was Rev. J. F. Esch ; the first resident- 
rector \v,as Rev. John Scott, who was succeeded by Rev. Mr. 
Rodgers, for a short time, when he was succeeded by Rev. Johm 
A. Bowman, the present rector. 

Baptist Church of Tioga Centre. — A number of Baptist brethren, 
members of the Owego Baptist church, living in this section,^ 
made application to that church to be allowed to act as a branch 
and receive members, which was granted, and January 13, 1838,- 
they organized as a branch society at Canfield Corners, in the- 
town of Nichols. October 13, 1838, they resolved to become a 
separate body. A council was called, and they were received as- 
a church, with twent)''-three members. 

Jan,uary 25, 1840, it was resolved to change the location to- 
Nichols village. April 11, 1840, eleven members, residents mostly 
of this town, united by letter from what is*now the Tioga and 
Barton church. December 12, 1840, Rev. Charles F. Fox was- 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 493 



■called to the pastorate. October 12, 1844, it was resolvpd to 
■change the name to the Baptist Church of Tioga Centre, and ser- 
vices were held in the school-house in that place. In 1849, the 
present church was built, at a cost of $2,000. Rev. Mr. Tilden is 
the present pastor. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church of Tioga Centre. — The Metho- 
■dists of this section had been supplied with ministers from Bar- 
ton for several years, but were regularly organized October 20, 
1870, as a church. In 1872 a house was built, combining elegance 
-and utility, at a cost of $8,000, and dedicated December 12, 1873. 
Rev. Mr. Todd is the present pastor. 

The Christian Church, was organized at Strait's Corners, in 1850, 
with seventeen members. Rev. B. B. Hurd as pastol'j erected a 
house in 1855. 

The Christian Church, at Halsey Valley, was organized in 1847 ; 
■erected a meeting-house in 1856, Rpv. A- J- Welton being tlie 
first pastor. 

The Methodist Episcopal Church, at German Settlement, was 
organized by its first pastor. Rev A. W. Loomis, in 1856. The 
■church building was erected in 18.70.. The society now has forty 
jnembers, with Rev. A. Osborne, pastor. 



PART SECOND 



DIRECTORY 



-OP- 



TIOGjl COUHTY, NEW YOIIK. 



i887--'88. 



COMPILED AND PUBLISHED 



W; B. GAY & CO. 



PERMANENT OFFICE 



SYRACUSE. N. Y. 



" He that hath much to do, will do something wrong, and of that wrong must suffer the 
consequences ; and if it were possible that he should always act rightly, yet when, such num- 
bers are to judge of his conduct, the bad will censure and obstruct hira by malevolence, and 
the good somepmes by mistake." — Samubl Johnson. 



SYRACUSE, N. Y.: 
The Stbacusb Jottbnal Compant, Pbintbks and Binders. 

1887. 



TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



IS THE PLACE TO BUY 

(Joal, ^A/ood, j^amber or ghmgles. 



SOUTSERN CENTRAL GOAL YARD, 

22Q MGMas\,er S\.vqq\., Owego, li. Y. 

Owego Gruciform Gasket Gompany. 



Manufacturers of and dealers in all kinds of Lumber and Building 
Material. Planing and Matching, Re-sawing, Scroll Sawing, Bracket Saw- 
ing, Shaping and Turning of every description. 

Doors, Sash and Blinds on hand and extra and odd sizes furnished at 
short notice. 

French Glass of all sizes kept in stock, and Sash Doors and Windows 
glazed. 

Flooring, Ceiling, Siding and Mouldings furnished in any quantity, 
large or small. 

SHIN&LES AND LATH, 

All kinds of lumbqr in the rough or dressed kept constantly on hand. 

Bee-hive and Honey-box material furnished to order. 

Lumber taken in exchange for work. 

Manufacturers of Hall's Celebrated Combined Sheathing and Lath, 
send for circulars and sample. Also manufacturers of all kinds of fine 
Cloth Covered Caskets, and dealers in fine finished wood Caskets and 
Coffins, and all kinds of 

Agents for Utopia, the " Triumph" Embalming Fluid of the age, and 
all kinds of Embalmer's Supplies. 

All orders filled with accuracy and dispatch. 

Send for illustrated album of styles and price list, and give us a trial. 

OWEGO CRUCIFORM CASKET CO., 

OWEG-O, TIOGA CO.. N. Y. 

Factory and Office, 42, 4 4 aud 46 Delphlno St. 



SXARKKV & WINTERS, Wholesale and Hetatl Urnggisis, owego. 



DIRECTORY 



-OF- 



TlQGjl COniiTY, NEW YORK. 



Directory is arranged as follows : — 

I — Name of individual or firm. 

2 — Postoffice address in parenthesis if different from the name of town. 

3 — The figures following the letter r indicate the number of the road on which the party resides, and will 
be found by reference to the map in the back part of this work. Where no road numlier is given the party 
ns suppossd to reside in the village. 

4 — Business or occupation. 

S — A star(*) placed before a name indicates an advertiser in this work. 

6— Figures placed after the occupation of a farmer indicate the number of acres owned or leased 

7 — Names in CAPITALS are those who have kindly given their patronage to the work, and without 
whose aid its pubHcation would have been impossible. 

^™ For additional names, changes and (corrections, see EJrrata, 

ABBREViATiONS.-5-Ab,, above; ave., avenue; bds., boards; bet., between; cqr., corner; E., east; emp., 
employee; fac. op., factory operative; h., house; manuf., manufacturer; Mfg., manufacturing; N., north; 
-n., near; opp., opposite; prop., proprietor; reg., registered as applied to livestock; regt., regiment; S., south; 
-supt., superintendent; W., west. 

The word street is implied. 



BARTON. 



(Postoffice address is Waverly, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Ackerly Nathaniel, clerk L. V. R. R. freight office, h 47 Waverly. , 
ACKLEY & BAILEY, (P. R. A. and J. B. B.) props. Tioga Hotel, Fulton 

cor. Elizabeth. 
ACKLEY PERRIN R., (Ackley & Bailey) h S. Waverly. 

* For the sake of convenience we print the directory of the incorporated village of Wav- 
-erly separate from the balance of the town of Barton. 
^TARKEX & 'WINXBiCS, promptly fill mall and Telepbone Orders. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 



Akins Jane, dressmaker, ii8 Clark, bds. do. 

Albertson Charles, milk depot and creamery, h 5 Orange. 

Albertson Clarence, milk dealer, bds, 5 Orange. 

Albertson Daniel, retired; h 1 1 Orange. 

Aldrich Samuel, emp. Novelty Works, h 344 Broad. 

Aldrich Vernie, emp. Novelty Works, h 344 Broad. 
>. ALLEN ADOLPHUS G., (Allen & Campbell) also att'y at law, over 203: 

Broad, h 8 Park Place. 
>Allen D. Wellington, att'y at law, bds. 8 Park Place. 

Allen Elizabeth G., widow Peleg, h 33 Waverly. 

Allen Louis S., clerk, bds. 33 Waverly. 

Allen William H., resident, h 321 Broad. 

American House, (A. P. Head, prop.) 260 Broad. 

Andre Jacob, retired, bds. 19 Chemung. 

Angell Edward J., market gardener, h 472 Chemung. 

Angell James E., market gardener 470 Chemung, h do. 

Angell Mary L., green-house, 472 Chemung. 

Aplin Eliza, widow James, h 29 Waverly. 

Atkins William, retired, h 120 Clark. 

Atwater Dewitt C, livery and boarding stable, Clark, and farmer 200, h 139. 
Clark. 

Atwater Lewis D., teller, First National Bank, bds. 139 Clark. 

Atwood Mary S., widow Rev. William, bds. Pennsylvania ave. 

Atwood William W., station agent D. L. & W. R. R., h 50 Fulton. 

BAILEY JOHN B.,(Ackley & Bailey) bds. Tioga Hotel. 

Baker Mary T. Mrs., millinery, 143 Waverly, h do. 

Baker Melvin J., carpenter, h 143 Waverly. 

Baldwin Albert B., boots and shoes, 6 Fulton, h 300 Chemung cor. Fulton. 

Baldwin Fralncis H., retired, h 300 Chemung. 

BALDWIN HUGH J,, lumber, also builder and jobber. Broad n. Penn- 
sylvania ave., h 320 Pennsylvania ave. 

Ball John M. Rev., retired Baptist clergyman, h. 8 Pine. 

Barber Clara A., preceptress academy, bds. 1 1 Broad. 

BARNES & MILLER, (B. D. B. and L. C. M.) groceries and provisions,- 
277 Broad. 

BARNES BENJAMIN D., (Barnes & Miller) bds. Seely's Hotel. 

Barnes John C, mason, h 10 Elm. 

Barnum & Personius, (S. D. B. and D. V. P.) seed, hay and grain, 264 Broad.- 

Barnum Hervey J., printer, bds. 166 Clark. 

Barnum John W, book-keeper, h 166 Clark. 

Barnum Lillian, book-keeper, 264 Broad, bds. Bradford. 

Barnum Smith D., (Barnum & Personius) h Bradford. 

Barr John, upholsterer, h over 251 Broad. 

Barr John C, cabinet maker, Elizabeth, h Chemung. 

Barrington Michael, laborer, h Erie. 

BARROWS ABRAM H., (Wilcox & Barrows) h 120 Waverly. 

Barton Alfred, clerk, h Clark. 

Barton Charles, emp. pipe foundry, h 102 Waverly. 

Bassett Henry, carpenter, h Orange. 

Bassett James, clerk, bds. over 226 Broad. 

Bauer Andrew M., painter, h 30 Broad. 

Baxter Robert J., machinist, h 12 Providence. 

Beach Arthur N., telegraph operator, bds. Christie House. 



BARTON— WAVERLY VILLAGE. 



Beach Eliza J., physician, 208 Pennsylvania ave., h do. 
Beams Horace E., crap. Swift & Co., h 28 Clark. 
Beardslee Edson E., drayman, h 2 Ithaca. 
JBeardslee Mary Mrs., dressmaker, 2 Ithaca, h do. 
Beekman Emma, dressmaker, 127 Chemung, bds. do. 
Beekman Sarah A., widow Isaac, h 127 Chemung. 
Bell Minor, emp. Novelty Works, h 25 Providence. 
Belles William, erap. Thatcher & Co., h 427 Chemung. 
Bellis Jacob, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 1 1 1 Howard. 
Beman John, hack stable, and prop, transfer line, Clark, bds. Tioga Hotel. 
Beman Merritt, h Loder, refused to give information. 
Bennet Stephen, druggist, and sporting goods, Broa,d, h 5 Clark. 
Bennett Alanson, night watch, h off Lincoln. 
Bennett Alfred, retired, h 128 Chemung. 
Bennett Frank, teamster, bds. 17 Providence. 
;Bennett Sophia, widow Amos, h rear 32 Fulton. 
Bentley Abram W., livery, Broad, h 23 do. 
Bentley John L., liveryman, Broad, bds. 23 do. 
Berry Ira L., traveling salesman, h 106 Fulton. 
Betowski W. Leon, merchant tailor, 123 Broad, h 10 Johnson. 
Bill Mary, widow, h 343 Broad. 
Bingham Jefferson, grocer, h 337 Broad. 
Bissett William H., laborer, bds. Lyman ave. 
Bixby Fred, telegraph operator, bds. 47 Fulton. 
Bixby Harrison, h 446 Chemung. 
Blizzard Edward, messenger, bds. 131 Fulton. 
Blizzard George S., drayman, h 131 Fulton. 
Blossom Amanda, dressmaker, bds. 16 Chemung. 
Blossom Jason B., contractor and builder, 16 Chemung, h do. 
Boda. & Dimmock, (W. H. B. and C. S. D.) meat market, 231 Broad. 
JBoda William H., (Bqda & Dimpnock) h 32 Pine. 
-Bodle John D., carpenter, bds. 41 1 Chemung. 
BOGART HENRY, engineer, h 8 Tioga. 
-Boggs Charles, porter, Hotel Warford, bds. do. 
Boggs George, laborer, bds. 401 Chemung. 

Bonfoey Hubert R., clerk L. V. R. R. freight office, h over 237 Broad. 
Bonnell Benjamin W., clerk Erie freight office, h 122 Clark. 
Boorom Chauncey D., carpenter, h Chemung. 
Borland William, laborer, h 43 Orange. 
Bostwick Silas W., painter and paper-hanger, Waverly, h do. 
Botrand Sylvester, brakeman, h 139 Howard. 
Bowen George Rev., rector Grace Church, h 400 Chemung. 
JBowen George H., cutter, bds. 400 Chemung. 
Bowen James, clerk postoffice, bds. 400 Chemung. 
Bowen Mpty I., clerk, bds. 400 Chemung cor. Waverly. 
Boyd Harry C, cigar packer, h Fulton. 
Bradley Julian A., machinist, h 22 Johnson. 
Bradley William H., resident, h Loder. 

^*BRAY JAMES B., editor and prop. Free Press, also job printing, 15 Ful- 
ton, h 17 do. 
JBrewster Curtis, variety store, Broad, h 308 Pennsylvania ave. 
Brewster ElUot S., carpenter, h Fulton. 
Brewster Harvey C, emp. Erie depot, h 180 Clark. 



6 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Brewster M. Lewis, emp. Erie R. R., h lo Pine. 

Brewster Newton C., teacher of penmanship, h E. Waverly. 

Brewster Rosanna, widow George, h i8o Clark. 

Briley , widow , milliner over 151 Broad, h do. 

Bristol, Nathan S., clerk L. V. R. R. freight office, h 108 Waverly. 

Brockitt George H., brakeman, h Spring. 

BROOKS CHARLES C, insurance, over 201 Broad, h 106 Pennsylvania.. 

Brooks Charles E., chief of police, bds. 106 Pennsylvania ave. 

Brooks Charles W., clerk, h 13 Orange. 

Brooks Lizzie D., dress and cloak maker, 12 Waverly, h do. 

Brougham Mary C, resident, h 501 Chemung. 

BROWN CHARLES E., pianqg, organs and sewing machines, 267 Broad, h 

125 Lincoln cor. Hickory. 
Brown Charles E., emp R. R. shops, Sayre, h Lyman ave. 
BROWN DOWLINGTON J., tea store, 261 Broad, h 29 Orange. 
Brown Ella, teacher, bds. 1 1 Broad. 
Brown Jacob M., clerk, bds. 29 Orange. 
Brown Merle A. J., clerk, bds. Lincoln cor. Hickory. 
Brown Orillaj widow Jesse, h 39 Broad. 
BRUSTER GEORGE C, art and ladies furnishing goods, 232 Broad, h> 

Pennsylvania ave. 
Buck Abbie B., widow Josiah T., h 3o6 Chemung. 
Buck George, resident, h 130 Howard. 
Buck Michael B., brakeman, bds. Loder. 
Buckbee Augusta, widow Enos, h 119 Clark. 
Buckley Nellie, widow Bradford, h 466 Chemung. 
Buley James D., retired, h 35 Fulton. 
Buley Joseph M., town collector, and sexton Presbyterian Church, h 11 2- 

Chemung. 
Buley Joseph M., Jr., messenger, W. U. Tel. office, bds. 112 Chemung. 
Buley Judd E., book-keeper for H. J. Baldwin, bds. 35 Fulton. 
Buley Lewis J. Q., clerk, bds. 112 Chemung. 

BUNN ALBERT R., boots and shoes, 219 Broad, h 121 Waverly. 
Bunnell D. Ann, widow William, bds. 43 Waverly. 
Burgess Lizzie T., teacher, bds. 505 Chemung. 

Burke Mrs., widow , h Erie. 

Bush Abram, passenger conductor, G. I. & S. R. R , room over 265 Broad, 

Bush Laura S., (H. M. Wilcox & Co.) widow J. G„ h 25 Waverly. 

Butts Henry S., manuf. patent medicines, h 204 Pennsylvania ave. 

Cadwell Lorenzo, retired, h 123 Chemung. 

Cahill Michael, foreman repair shop, Erie R. R., h 57 Broad. 

Cahill Michael J., clerk, bds. 57 Broad. 

Cain Daniel W., laborer, h 33 Waverly. 

Callahan John, laborer, h 121 Erie. 

Camp Carrie Mrs., resident, h Clark. 

Campbell Abram F., carpenter, h Clark. 

Campbell Clarence C, coal dealer at East Waverly, h 8 Park Place. 

Campbell Emery J., resident, h 420 Chemung. 

Campbell Frank J., clerk, L. V. R. R. freight office, h 48 Fulton. 

Campbell William, car inspector, h 1 1 1 Lincoln. 

Canall Charles W., cigarmaker, bds. 135 Chemung. 

Caney Phoebe A., laundress, h Hickory. 

Careau Frances, dressmaker, bds. 43 Orange. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 



Carey Daniel G., patent medicine manuf., Broad, h 421 Chemung. 

Carey Erastus, laborer, h Hickory. 

Carey Rebecca C, widow William J., bds. 45 Orange. 

Carey Samuel C, traveling salesman, bds. 441 Chemung. 

"Carmody Thomas F., saloon, Fulton h do. 

Carmoody Simon, assistant train dispatcher, Erie R. R.,bds. Warford House. 

Carpenter Harrison W., laborer, h. 109 Lincoln. 

Carpenter I.ou A., widow Stephen, resident, bds. 33 Fulton. 

Carr & Teachman, (C. S. C. & I. P. T.,) meat market 119 Broad. 

Carr Clark S., (Carr & Teachman) h 34 Broad. 

Carr Robert, brakeman, h 236 Broad. 

Carroll John, station agent Erie depot, h no Fulton. 

Case Angelina E., widow John, h in Howard. 

Case Cornelius, carpenter, h 125 Howard. 

Case George W., carpenter, h 47 Orange. 

Case Irving, painter, bds. 125 Howard. 

Case James, foreman Novelty works, h 24 Loder. 

Chaffee Charles F., drug clerk, h n3 Park ave. 

Chaffee Daniel, switchman, h 12 Loder. 

Chaffee Ellen A., widow William A., h 5 Lincoln. 

Chaffee Myrtie M.. dressmaker, bds. 5 Lincoln. 

Chall John, building mover, h 29 Broad. 

Chamberlain Edward, drayman, h Pine. 

Chambers Catharine, widow Thomas, bds. 15 Loder. 

Chatam Myron, clerk, bds. Waverjy. 

Christie House, W. H. Goldsmith, prop., Fulton, opp. Erie depot. 

Christie John M., retired, h. 27 Fulton. 

Clark Benjaman B., retired, h 200 Penn. ave. 

CLARK CHARLES H., bakery and confectionery, 121 Broad, h Pleasant. 

CLARK JAMES A., hardware, stoves, etc., 217 Broad, h 316 Penn. ave. 

Clark Lyman W., painter, h over 234 Broad. 

Clark Warren M., foreman Sayre Butter Package Company, h no Waverly. 

Clarke & Ralyea, (F. H. C. & W. H. R.) cigars and tobacco, 275 Broad. 

Clarke Floyd H., (Clarke & Ralyea) h Chemung. 

Clawsey James, laborer, h Erie. 

Clemens Charles H., emp. pipe foundry, h 330 Broad. 

Clohessy Michael J., clerk, h Pitney. 

Cobb Adolphus, locomotive engineer, bds. Warford House. 

Cochran Frisby M., engineer, h 123 Ciark. 

Coffee John, laborer, h 112 Howard. 

Cole Archie, cigarmaker, bds 104 Waverly. 

Cole Charles, porter Commercial Hotel, bds. do. 

Cole Mary, widow James, h 135 Howard. 

Cole Minnie E., widow Edmond C, h 104 Waverly. 

Coleman Gabriel, farmer, h 24 Park Place. 

Colemam Jacob S,, carpenter, h 24 Park Place. 

Coleman Samuel, blacksmith, bds. 437 Chemung. 

Collins Michael, switchman, h Broad. 

Commercial Hotel, D. S. Kennedy, prop., Fulton cor. Elizabeth. 

Compton Eugene, harness maker, h over 151 Broad. 

Compton James E., miller, h 140 Waverly. 

Compton Richard W., shoemaker, Erie, h do. 

Comstock A. B. Mrs., art teacher, 126 Waverly. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 



Comstock Alphonso B., photographer over 208 Broad, h 126 Waverly. 
Cone Betsey, widow John, h 3 Tioga. 
Congdon Lynn, amp. Novelty works, h 337 Broad. 
Conklin Levi K., emp, wheel foundry, h. 318 Broad. 
Conley Michael, brakeman, bds. 381 Broad. 
Cooper Daniel H. Rev., pastor Baptist church, h 13 Tioga. 
Cooper Seymour R., sewing machines, 18 Johnson, h. do. 
Corby Allen W., emp. Toy shop. 
Corby Ezekiel, teamster, h 17 Providence. 
Corey William A., carpenter, h 310 Penn. ave. 
Cortright Lewis, switchman, h 131 Chemung. 
Cortright Mrs., h 16 Loder. 
Corwin Lewis, shoemaker, Broad, h Pine. 

Corwin Oliver B., butter, salt, and grass seed, 270 Broad, h Fulton. 
^Coryell Vincent M., retired, h 20 Park ave. j9r, 
Costello John, blacksmith, bds. 147 Howard. 
Courtwright William H., emp. S. A. Genung, h Fulton. 
Cowen William C, conductor, h 105 Clark. 
Cramer John, locomotive engineer, h 202 Howard. 
Crandall ^Charles M., manuf. Crandall's building blocks, toys and games, 

Broad n Spaulding, h. Howard. 
Crandall Jesse M., book-keeper for C. M. Crandall, bds. Howard. 
Griddle James, resident, h 8 Providence. 
Crispin Charles E., photographer, bds. over 241 Broad. 
Crogger George, barber, h over 283 Broad. 
Crowley Jerry, laborer, h 219 Howard. 
Cummings Edward, retired, h 33 Orange. 
Curran Andrew, laborer, h 223 Erie. 
Curran Catharine M., widow Thaddeus, bds. 159 Clark. 
Curran Floyd, clerk, h no Howard. 
Curran Merritt D., brakeman, h 2 Ithaca. 
Curran Thomas, resident, h 121 Erie. 
Curran William, emp. Erie R. R., h 18 Broad. 
Curtis Frederick, barkeeper, h 416 Chemung. 
Curtis Levi, miller, h 100 Penn. ave. 
DAILEY WILLIAM E,, mason, i Spring, h do. 
Daily Harriet B., widow Peter, h 118 Clark. 
Daily John, musician, h 14 Johnson. 
Dalton Thomas, laborer, h 39 Broad. 
Dalton William, brakeman, h 413 Chemung. 
Darling Dexter H., clerk 202 Front, rooms do. 
Davenport Frank L., laborer, bds. Chemung cor. Orchard. 
Davenport Jacob, teamster, h 413 Chemung. 
Davis Samuel S., emp. Novelty Works, h 26 Elm. 
Dearborn Charles, conductor Lehigh Valley R. R., h Chemung. 
Dearborn Mack, conductor, h 118 Clark. 
Debabery Augustus, peanut vender. Broad n Loder. 

DECKER ABRAM I., supervisor, also prop. Decker tannery, h Chemung. 
Decker Andrew J., carpenter, h 18 Orange. 
Decker Jefferson, laborer, h 45 Orange. 
Decker John, emp. Decker's tannery, h 19 Clark. 
Decker Seely, laborer, h 135 Howard. 
DeForest Charles, supt. poor^ h 114 Waverly. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 



Deitrich Lewis, watchman, bds. 381 Broad. 

Delaney David C, emp. Erie Ex. Co., bds. 16 Providence. 

Delaney Dewitt C, sewing machines, bds. Spaulding. 

Delaney John, brakeman, h 113 Erie. 

Delany Daisy, clerk, h Fulton. - ^ 

Delany John, night watch Lehigh Valley R. R. office, h Fulton. 

Delany Josie E., millinery, 211 Broad, h 47 Fulton. 

Delany William E., freight agent D., L. Sz: W. depot, h 47 Fulton. 

Demorest Clarence L., boots and shoes, 247 Broad, h 7 Tioga. 

Demorest Elmer, travehng salesman, h 44 Waverly. 

Demorest Polly B., widow Leonard, h 7 Tioga. 

Denn Alfred W., resident, bds. 22 Elm. 

Denn Almira, resident, h 20 Elm. 

Denn Angeline, widow Alfred, h 22 Elm. 

Denton Mary, resident, bds. 6 Park Place. 

Deuel Amos E., harness maker, 250 Broad, h Lincoln. 

Deuel Amos E., Jr., postal clerk, h 108 Lincoln. 

Deuel John T., manager for A. E. Deuel, bds. 108 Lincoln. 

Devine Michael J., clerk, h 244 Broad. 

Deyo William S., emp. Mills & O'Brien, h Broad. 

Dick Andrew, carpenter, h Elm. 

Dickson Jane, widow Charles, h 337 Broad. 

Dilamarter John, laborer, h Chemung cor. Tioga. 

Dimmick Franklin, retired, h 107 Chemung. 

Dimmock Charles S., (Boda & Dimmock) h 192 Clark. 

Dingee John T., florist, 116 Lincoln, h do. 

Dingman Edward, mason, bds. Hotel Warford. 

Dinmore Joseph V., resident, h 128 Clark. 

Doane Emmett A., carpenter, bds. 138 Chemung. 

Doane Gabriel P., contractor and builder, 138 Chemung, h do. 

Dobell William, emp. Novelty Works, h over 151 Broad. 

Dodge Ira G., lumber dealer, bds. 9 Providence. 

Donnelly Owen, shoemaker, 218 Erie, h do. 

Donovan Frank, brakeman, bds. 22 Park Place. 

Dorsett & Faulkner, (S. C. D. and J. E. F.) meat market, 215 Broad. 

Dorsett Samuel C, (Dorsett & Faulkner) h 105 Waverly. 

Dorsey Albert B., emp. pipe foundry, h 232 Erie. 

Dougjass John, night clerk Tioga Hotel, bds. do. 

Dove Burr, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 18 Chemung. 

Dove Fred, cigarmaker, bds. 18 Chemung. 

Dove Maria, widow Samuel, h 18 Chemung. 

Downs Thomas, blacksmith, h Broad. 

Draper Eli S., emp. Bottling Works, h 24 Clark. 

Driscoll Mary, widow Jeremiah, bds. 105 Chemung. 

Drobnyk Joseph F., cutter, h 125 Fulton. 

DuBois Joseph, retired, h 22 Waverly. 

Dunham James J., wagonmaker. Broad n Pennsylvania ave., h do. 

Dunn Charles A., emp. pipe foundry, bds. Christie House. 

Dunn Peter F., porter, bds. Broad n Loder. 

Dunning Charity, widow William, h 138 Waverly. 

Dunning Jacob P., retired, bds. Warford House. 

Dunning Julia C, widow Jacob, bds. 47 Waverly. 

Durfey Almira, widow Lyman, bds. 301 Chemung. 



lO BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Durfey Edson B., miller, h Broad n Johpson. 

-Durfey Riton, resident, bds. 301 Chemung. 

EATON AMBROSE P., att'y at law, Exchange blk., Main, h at Sraithboro, 

Edgcomb Leroy, resident, h 13 Lincoln. 

Edmiston Thomas P., car inspector, h 48 Waverly. 

Eichenberg Edward J., baker and confectioner, Athens, Pa., h Cadwell. 

Eichenberg James, laborer, h 18 Chemung. 

Eisenhart George H., pigarmaker, h 38 Pine. 

Ellis Dell C, widow Fred F., h over 263 Broad. 

Ellis Elizabeth, widow Joseph, h 313 Broad. 

Ellis Henrietta, widow Joseph H., bds. 108 Waverly. 

Ellis Lodesca, widow Cyrus J., h 229 Broad. 

Ellis Hiram, clerk, h 117 Fulton. 

ELLIS J. ADDISON, carpenter, h 23 Lincoln. 

ELLIS SEELE H., art goods, 229 Broad, h do. 

Ellis Sidney E., manager clothing store. 230 Broad, h over do. 

ELMER HOWARD, prest. First Nat. Bank, h Pennsylvania ave. 

Elsbree Eugene C, watchman, h 20 Providence. 

Emery Bartholomew W., emp. Novelty Works, h 330 Broad. 

Emmersou William E., clerk, h Center. 

Englebreck John, harness maker and boarding-house, 21 Waverly. 

ENGLEMAN GUS, variety store, 131 Broad, h ii8 Chemung. 

English David W., barber, 127 1-2 Broad. 

Enos Truman E., book-keeper Citizens Bank, bds. 10 Park Place. 

Enwright John, machinist, h 17 Johnson. 

Evans Henry L., laborer, h Clinton ave., cor. Pine. 

Everett Elijah H., clerk, h 338 Broad. 

Excelsior Mutual Benefit Association, (C. C. Brooks, prest.; C. E. Pendle- 
ton treas.j L. C. Corey, secy.) over 201 Broad. 

FAIRCHILD & THOMAS, (Murray F. & Holly W. T.) fire, life and ac- 
cident insurance, over First National Bank. 

Fairchild Anna, clerk, bds. Bradford. 

Fairchild Mary E., book-keeper Fairchild & Thomas, bds Bradford, 

FAIRCHILD MURRAY, (Fairchild & Thomas) bds. Tioga House. 

Falsey Margarett C, teacher, bds. Clark. 

Falsey Mary, clerk, bds. Clark. 

Falsey Michael, furniture finisher, h Clark. 

Falsey Sarah A,, dressmaker, Clark, bds. do. 

FARLEY & SANDERS, (W. C. F. & C. H. S.) groceries, crockery, and 
provisions; 231 Broad. 

FARLEY WILLIAM C, (Farley & Sanders) h 10 Broad. 

Farrel John, emp. toy factory, bds. 329 Broad. 

Farrell Mary A., widow Daniel, bds. 130 Lincoln. 

Farricy Mary, widow Dennis, h Chemung cor. Erie R. R. 

Faulkner John E., (Dorsett & Faulkner) h 4 Chemung. 

Ferguson Hartwell M. & Co., (Edwin W. Horton) tobacco and cigars, 200 
Broad. 

Furguson Hartwell M., (H. M. Furguson & Co.) h 133 Chemung. 

Fern Julius E., candy maker, h over 249 Broad, 

Fessenden Harvey C, clerk, h Clark. 

Fessenden Harvey G., undertaker, h 121 Clark. 

Floyd Elizabeth, widow Harvey, M., bds. 42 Waverly, 



BARTON — VVAVERLY VILLAGE. II- 

TLOYD JACOB B., att'y at law, Exchange bldg., Broad, h 42 Waverly cor. 

Tioga. 
Flynn John, laborer, Chemung. 
Flynn Michael, blacksmith, bds. .■581 Broad. 

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WAVERLY, (Howard Elmer, prest.; N. 
S. Johnson, vice-prest. ; F. E. Lyford, cashier ; P. L. Lang, asst. cashier.)- 
Broad cor. Fulton. 
Fish George W., retired, h 295 Chemung. 
Fish John B., telegraph operator, h Providence. 
Fisher Alton A., clerk, bds. 100 Chemung. 
Fisher George O., emp. Novelty Works, h roo Chemung. 
Fitzgeral Michael, laborer, h 378 Broad. 
Follett Phoebe A., widow Sluman, h 50 Waverly. 
Follett Sophia H., Mrs., resident, 32 Park ave. 
Fosburg Ellen A., widow James, laundress, h 170 Clark. 
Fralick Abram, machinist, h 113 Waverly. 
Fralick Ransom, machinist, bds. 113 Waverly. 
Frauenthal Isedore E., fruits and oysters, 244 Broad, bds. Tioga. 
French George H., station baggage agent, Erie R. R., h 12 Tioga. 
French Carrie, dressmaker, 314 Broad, h do. 
French Hiram G., clerk, h r2 Tioga. 
French Rachel, resident, bds. 12 Tioga. 
French William T., clerk, h 4 Lincoln. 
*FREE PRESS, James B. Bray, prop., 15 Fulton. 
Freestone George S., (Parsons & Freestone) bds. 47 Fulton. 
Frink Frederick, supt.. Toy works, bds. Tioga Hotel. 
Frisbie Chauncey M., book-keeper, 203 Broad, h. Chemung. 
Fritcher Elsa M., widow James, h 301 Chemung. 
Frost Minnie, clerk, bds. Erie. 
Frost Thomas, laborer, h 211 Erie. 
Fuller Mrs., widow, h 107 Howard. 
Gallagher Patrick, car inspector, h 57 Broad. 
Galloway Emory H., emp. L. V. R. R., h 3i Johnson. 
Ganther Jacob, emp. L. V. R. R., h 25 Providence. 
Gardner Elizabeth B., widow Levi, h 446 Chemung. 
Gardner William H., resident, bds. 446 Chemung. 
Gas Light Co. of Waverly, (William F. Warner, prest,; Henry G. Merriam,. 

secy, and treas.) office Waverly, over Merriam Bros. 
Gee Lucy, widow WiUiam, bds. 14 Broad. 

GENUNG GEORGE D., editor 2'^e Waverly Advocate, h 105 Pine. 
Genung Reuben H., emp. Novelty Works, bds. i^^s Waverly. 
GENUNG SALMON A., wood dealer, h Fulton. 
GENUNG SHERMAN A., contractor and builder, sash, doors, bhnds,, 

etc., Fulton, h 12 Pleasant. 
Gerould B. & Co., (J. H. Shoemaker) groceries and provisions, in Broad. 
Gerould Beebe, (B. Gerould Sc Co.) h 41 Fulton. 
Gibbons Hannah, widow Sylvester, h 246 Broad. 
Gibbons James S., groceries and provisions, 546 Broad, h do. 
Gibson Robert w!. barber, over 213 Broad, h do. 
Gilbert Elliot R., switchman, h 142 Clark. 
GLEASON WILLIAM H., switchman, h 19 Elm. 
Goade Richard J., machinist, h 27 Clark. 
G'oble Abner, carpenter, h 411 Chemung. 



f2 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Goble Mary E., widow Smith, h 16 Providence. 

Goflf G. Halsey, manager Swift's Chicago dressed beef icing station, h 

315 Broad. 
■Golden John, laborer, bds. Broad. 
Golden Patrick, laborer, h Broad. 

Goldsmith William H., prop. Christie House, Fulton, h do. 
Gore Harry W., drug clerk, h 7 Athens. 
Gorman Edward, emp. Erie R. R., h 10 Clark. 
Gorman John, brakeman, h 345 Broad. 
•Gorman Michael, fireman, h 233 Erie. 
Gormon Patrick, laborer, h 233 Erie. 
Gorski Samuel, tailor, h 21 Chemuhg. 
Goulden Charles F., law student, bds. Bradford. 
Grace Bertha, teacher, bds. Blizard. 
■Grace Joseph, lumberman, h Blizard. 
Grace Patrick J., carpenter, h 15 Loder. 

■GrafFt George H., justice of the peace, over 214 Broad, h Main. 
Gray Ann, widow Arthur, bds 22 Waverly. 

Gray Dewitt C, coal, wood, lime and cement, Erie, h 124 Clark. 
Green Edward, resident, h 28 Waverly. 
Green Frederick C, clerk Christie House, bds. do. 
■Green Jesse, clerk, bds. 28 Waverly. 
Green John P., retired, h 28 Broad. 
Greer Fred, brakeman, bds. 127 Chemung. 
•Greer Henry C, fireman, h 314 Broad. 
Gregory Charles W., painter, h 12 Broad. 
Gridley Henry N., engineer, h 6 Tioga. 
Griswold Frank, emp. Novelty Works, bds. in Howard. 
Groesbeck Cornelius V., emp. U. S. express company, h 5 Broad. 
Guyer James E., coal, lime and cement, also carriages, sleighs and farming 

implements, Clark, h 115 Waverly. 
Hagadorn Henry, teaming and livery, 2 Broad, h do. • 
Hagadorn James C, liveryman, bds. 2 Broad. 
Haight Guy C, bar-keeper 12 Fulton, h Broad. 
Hair Daniel, emp. gas works, bds. Erie. 
Hair John. emp. gas works, h Erie. 

HALL & LYON, (S. C. H. & G. F. L.) novelty furniture works, 356 Broad. 
Hall Eli R., tin-smith, h 13 Broad. 
Hall Eugene A., baker, h Chemung. 
Hall G. MunSon, brakeman, rear ijo Chemung. 
HALL STEPHEN C, (Hall & Lyon) h 33 Park ave. 

Hallet & Son, (H. & H. W.) groceries, crockery and provisions, 245 Broad. 
Hallet Harry W., (Hallet & Son) bds. 4 Tioga. 
Hallet Hatfield, (Hallet & Son) h 4 Tioga. 
Hallett Clarence W., painter, h 72 Fulton. 
Hallett DeKalb, painter, bds. 72 Fulton. 
Hallett Joseph E., insurance, 409 Chemung, h do. 
Hamilton Simeon V., retired, h 120 Lincoln. 
Hammond Charles, laborer, h 401 Chemung. 
Hancock Irving, barber, over 225 Broad, h do. 
Hancock Mary, widow Jeremiah, nurse, h Moore cor. Fulton. 
JiANFORD & LORD, (M. F. H. & L. F. L.) groceries, provisions and bakers, 

222 Broad. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 1 5 

Hanford Edward S., asst. postmaster and town clerk, bds. Warford House. 
HANFORD MAURICE F., (Hanford & Lord) h 14 Main. 
Hanford Noah, emp. Novelty Works, h Lincoln. 
Hanley Matthew, resident, h 235 Erie. 
Hanna Charles G., emp. Erie express, h 129 Waverly. 
Hanna James A., carpenter, h 139 Howard. 
Hanrehan Michael, switchman,^ bds. 147 Howard, 
Harden Oscar, clerk, bds. 29 Providence cor. Spaulding. 
Harding Adney, carpenter, h 5 Providence. 
Harding Jabez B., train dispatcher, L. V. R. R.,h 14 Waverlj'. 
Harding John, par inspector, h 216 Howard. 
Harnden Daniel D., physician and surgeon, 7 Waverly, h do. 
Harnden Rufus S., physician and surgeon, 31 Fulton, 1133 do. 
Harrigan John J., engineer, h 103 Chemung. 
Harris Elisha T., resident, bds. 31 Broad. 
Harris Eraeline E., widow Daniel N., resident, h. 31 Broad. 
Harris George R., jeweler, 2 Fulton, bds. 31 Broad. 
Harris Thomas, laborer, h 216 Erie. 
Harsh Andrew, mason, bds. 333 Broad. 
Harsh Cornelius, mason, h 333 Broad. 
Harsh Harriet, widow Charles M., h 442 Chemung. 

Hart Brothers, (Willard K , & Irving S.) groceries and provisions, 205 Broad- 
Hart Irving S., (Hart Bros.) h 18 Maple. 
Hart Willard K., (Hart Bros.) h 18 Maple. 
Havens John, painter, h over 224 Broad, 
llawley Chauncey, emp. Toy factory, bds. 329 Broad. 
Haworth John C, lamp lighter, h Moore. 
Haworth Thomas W., printer, bds. Moore. 
Hayes Fred B., (H. H. Hayes & Son) bds. 107 Fulton. 
Hayes H. H. & Son, (Fred B.) drugs and medicines, 236 Broad. 
Hayes Henry H., (H. H. Hayes & Son) h 107 Fulton. 
Hayes John, emp. Novelty Works, bds. Broad. 
Hayes Mary Mrs., resident, h Broad. 

Hayes William, emp. Novelty Works, h Broad. . , 

HAYWOOD CHARLES M., marble' and granite ceinetery works, 107 Broad^ 

residence at Owego. 
Head Anson P., prop. American House. 
Head Richard, saloon and restaurant, 252 Broad, h do. 
Hemstreet Anthony, resident, h 469 Chemung. 
Hemstreet Gertrude, h 501 Chemung. 
Hemstreet Ida M., clerk, bds. Chemung. 
Henessy William, car inspector, h 27 Orange. 
Henry Edward, barber, over 219 Broad, h do. 
Hern Bert J., clerk, bds. 159 dark. 

Hern John,^roceries and provisions, 117 Broad, h 159 Clark. 
Herrick Hugh T., book-keeper .over 201 Broad, h 411 Chemung. 
Hess Charles, carpenter, h 75 Fulton. 
Hess Nirum J., contractor and builder, Fulton, h do. 
Hesser Abram, emp. L. V. R. R.,Ji 26 Lincoln. 
Hewitt Henry, carpenter, h 32 Fulton. 
Hickey John, resident, h 381 Broad. 
Higbee Allison B., clerk, h over 218 Broad. 
Higgins Edward M., tanner, h 23 Orange. 



rl4 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Higgins Edward W., brakeman, bds. 23 Orange. 

Higgins Gilbert C, conductor, bds 23 Orange. 

Higgins John J., engeneer, bds 23 Orange. 

Jliggins Mary, book-keeper, bds. 23 Orange. 

Higgins Theresa, dressmaker, bds. 23 Orange. 

Higgins William P., fireman, bds. 23 Orange. 

Hildebrahd Andrew, boots and shoes, 225 Broad, h 112 Clark. 

Hill Erastus, carpenter and builder, h 10 Park Place. 

Hill George W., shoemaker under 127 Broad, h 22 Loder. 

Hill Henry, shoemaker Broad, h 22 Loder. 

Hine Lucy A., widow Harrison, h 318 Broad. 

Hinman Eliza A., widow Henry, boarding-house, 114 Chemung. / 

Hinman Helen, widow James, bds. 329 Broad. 

Hinman Helen M., clerk, h 114 Chemung. 

Hinman Sarah W., widow Charles, bds. it Providence. 

Hinman Truman, retired, h 36 Broad. 

Hinman William E, painter and' paper-hanger, bds. 114 Chemung. 

Hilton Willard M., physician and surgeon, Pennsylvania ave., h do. 

Hoadley Miles S., conductor, h 104 Fulton. 

Hoban John W., 255 Broad, h do. 

Hoban William, clerk, bds. over 255 Broad. 

Jioff I. P. & C, (William D. Hoff ) jewelers, 202 Broad. 

Hoff Ives P., (L P. Hofr& Co.) h Fulton. 

Hoff William D., (L P. Hoff & Co. ; h Pennsylvania ave. 

Hogan Hugii, track walker, h Erie. 

Holbert Emmet J., retired, h 9 Park ave. 

Holland Phebe, widow Henry, h 229 Erie. 

Holmes John A., traveling salesman, h Moore cor. Fulton. 

Hoover John F., painter, h Fulton. 

Hopkins James J., engineer, h loi Chemung. 

Hopkins William, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 16 Providence. 

Horton Edwin W., (H. M. F'erguson & Co.) bds. 135 Chemung. 

Horton Emma E. Mrs., fruit and confectionery, 210 Broad, h do. 

Horton George, emp. Axel Works, bds. 330 Broad. 

Horton James F., manager for Mrs. Emma Horton, h 210 Broad. 

Horton Mary E., widow Daniel D., bds. Chemung cor. Orchard. 

Horton Sarah, resident, bds. 3 Athens. 

Horton William H., gardener, h 135 Chemung. 

Hotalen Mordecai, carpenter, h 30 Orange. 

Hotalen Peter, carpenter, h 6 Lincoln. 

Hotalen Randall, drayman, h 139 Lincoln. 

HOTEL WARFORD, (Wadsworth & Kelsey, prop's.) Broad cor. Fulton. 

House Frank B., emp. Novelty Works, h Clark. 

Hovey J. Fred, train dispatcher, L. V. R. R., h 128 Lincoln. 

Hoyt Adeline, widow John L , resident, h 8 Orchard. 

Hoyt C. Chester, switchman, h 8 Broad. 

Hoyt Jehiel G., teamster, h 142 Clark. 

Hoyt John H., employed in Sayre, bds. 8 Orchard. 

Hubbell Nelson, station agent, h off Lincoln. 

Hubbell William, teamster, bds. 17 Providence. 

Hugg Lvman D., traveling salesman, h 106 Chemung. 

JHLugg Willis P., clerk, bds. 106 Chemung. 

Huggins Carrie C, teacher, bds 2 Athens. 



■BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE, 1 5 

Huggins Elizabeth H., widow James A., h 2 Athens. 
HullPhilhp M., teacher, h 18 Elm. 
' Hulse William H., butcher, h Ulster. 
Hyatt Jonah G., inventor and patentee Hyatt's door carrier, h Waverly. 
Ichenberg John, retired, bds. 129 Clark. 
Inman William F., resident, h 400 Chemung. 
ISLEY & SONS, stone cutters, and masons, dealars in curbing and flagging, 

36 Waverly. 
ISLEY JAMES, (Isley & Sons) 36 Waverly, h do. 
ISLEY WALTER, (Isley & Sons) bds. 36 Waverly. 
ISLEY WILLIAM R., (Isley & Sons) bds. 36 Waverly. 
Jarvis Mary, widow Alva, h 6 Elm. 
Jenkins CeUa Mrs., resident, h 310 Pennsylvania ave. 
Johnson Benjamin F., traveling salesman, h Pine. 
Johnson Nathan S., vice-prest. First Nat. Bank, h Chemung. 
Johnson Parmenas A., physician, 14 Pennsylvania ave., h do. 
Johnson Solomon C, retired, bds. Pine. 
JOHNSON WILLIAM E., physician and surgeon, 8 Waverly, h 44 Park ave. 

Jones Charles W., book-keeper, h Chemung. 

Jones James, bartender, bds. 125 Broad. 

Jones John R., butter dealer, 268 Broad, h 19 Park ave. 

Jones William H. W., book-keeper, 268 Broad, bds. 19 Park ave. 

Jordan Charles S., saloon, 259 Broad, h do. 

Kane John, laborer, h 225 Erie. 

Kane John, butcher, h 132 Lincoln. 

Kane Michael, brakeman, bds. Warford House. 

Kaneir John, laborer, bds. Chemung cor. Broad. 

Kaneir Patrick, laborer, h Chemung cor. Broad. 

Kase John E., furniture finisher, h 39 Fulton. 

Keefe John, emp. Erie R. R., bds. 19 Loder. 

Xeeler Faank W., foreman Waverly Advocate, h Pennsylvania ave. 

Keeler George ly , clerk, h Athens cor. Tioga. 

Keeler Thomas, painter and paper-hanger. Broad, h Lyman ave. 

Keller Charles, laborer, bds. 381 Broad. 

Kelly Thomas, mason, h Erie. 

Kelly Viola D., music teacher, bds. Elizabeth. 

KELSEY CHARLES D., (Wadsworth & Kelsey) bds. Hotel Warford. 

Kelsey William H., clerk. Hotel Warford, bds. do. 

Kemp Milner, clerk, h 5 1 Waverly. 

Kennedy Daniel A,, clerk, h 12 Johnson. 

Kennedy Duncan S., propr. Commercial Hotel, h do. 

Kennedy Edward, turner, bds, 329 Broad. 

Xennedy James, retired, h 12 Johnson. 

Kennedy James H., clerk, bds. 12 Johnson. 

Kennedy Michael W., cashier Erie freight office, bds. 12 Johnson. 

Kenney Michael J., machinist, h 147 Howard. 

Kenney William E., conductor, h loi Spalding. 

Kenrick James, emp. L. V. R. R., h 134 Howard. 

Kenyon James A,, retired, h 314 Pennsylvania ave. 

Xilmer Clarence, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 25 Orange. 

Kilmer John, clerk, h 25 Orange. 

Xingsbury Frank A., clerk, h Lincoln. 

Xinney Anna, widow Henry C, h 3 Providence. 



l6 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE.- 

Kinney F. Eloise, telephone operator, h 114 Clark. 

Kinney Greeley, resident, h 322 Broad. 

Kinney Horace, book-keeper Citizens Bank, bds. Howard. 

Kinney H. Wall, clerk L. V. R. R. Ft. office, bds. Tioga House. 

Kinney Juliet T., widow Newton, h 114 Clark. 

Kinney Maj-garet, widow Daniel, h 113 Erie. 

Kinney Michael, laborer, h 218 Howard. 

Kinney Miles L., clerk, bds. 114 Clark. 

Kinney Perley H., retired, h 134 Waverly. 

Kinney Simon, depot police, h 40 Fulton. 

Kinsman & Youne, (J. E. K. & J. F. Y.) blacksmiths, 3 Pennsylvania ave. 

Kinsman Fred, clerk, h Waverly. 

Kinsman John E., (Kinsman & Young) h 10 Lincoln. 

KLINE ALBERT, clerk, h over 253 Broad. 

Knapp Charles, teamster, bds. 10 Park ave. 

Knapp Charles S., watchmaker, bds. Waverly. 

Knapp David D., jeweler, optician and engraver, 211 Broad, h 49 Waverly, 

Knapp Harry W., clerk, bds. Read. 

KNAPP JOSEPH W., dry goods, 203 Broad, h Read. 

Kniffin Daniel R., clerk, h over 235 Broad. 

Knight Henry C, resident, h 125 Waverly. 

Krist Frederick, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 22 Park Place. 

Krist Joseph, emp. Novelty Works, h 22 Park Place. 

LaBarre Jehiel T., carpenter, h 329 Broad. 

Laine Henry T., erap. L. V. R. R., h 325 Broad. 

Lambkin Russell, emp. Novelty Works, h 33 Fulton. 

La Mont Phebe, resident, h 44 Broad. 

Lane Irene A., widow Lewis, h Pine. 

Lang Percy L., asst. cashier First Nat. Bank, h. 105 Chemung. 

Langheed John H., emp. Atwater's Livery, h 127 Chemung. 

Lantz George W., clerk, 138 Clark. 

Lappla Philip H., wood carver, h 16 Park Place. 

Lariew H. Porter, agent Elmira oil company, h Loder. 

Larnard Asoeph S., confectionery and cigars, 3 Elizabeth, h do. 

LARNARD A. WARREN^ contractor and builder, Lyman ave. h do. 

Larnard George H., clerk, bds. 3 Elizabeth. 

Larnard Theo R., carpenter, h 129 Lincoln. 

LASSLY ELIJAH M., livery and feed stable, Clark n Broad, h 141 Waverly. 

Lathrop Frederick M., emp. L. V. R. R., h 8 Athens. 

Lathrop Helen, widow Simon, h 8 Athens. 

Lawrence Charles, stationery engineer, bds. 330 Broad. 

Layman J. Lewellyn, emp. R. R. shop,Sayre, h 19 Clark. 

Leavitt Clara W., widow Harry, bds. Lincoln. 

Lehigh Valley R. R. Freight Office, Bert Hayden, agent, Fulton cor. Erie. 

Lemon Israel G., fire and life insurance, over 245 Broad, h 17 Orange. 

LEMON JAMES, foundry and machine shop and manuf. land rollers. Broad, 

h 8 Park ave. 
Lenox Frank B., brakeman, bds. 363 Broad. 
Lenox George F., baggageman, h loi Broad. 

LENT CLARENCE A., contractor and builder, Lincoln cor. Spring. 
Lent W. Nelson, apiarist, bds. Lincoln. 
Lester Albert J., clerk L. V. R. R. Ft. office, h 6 Athens. 
Lewis John H., resident, h Pine. 



BARTON---WAVERLY VILLAGE. 1 7 

Lewis Walter H., resident, h 17 Park Place. 

Linden Hugh, emp. pipe foundry, bds. Christie House. 

Lindsey Frances A. Mrs., laundress, h Pine. 

Lindsey Grant W., cigar maker h over 336 Broad. 

Lindsey William, carpenter, h 3 1 Clark. 

Lindsley Parks, steward Tioga Hotel, bds. do. 

Lockerby George, brakeman, h Elm. 

Lockerby Wallace H., barber 12 Fulton, h Broad cor. Pine. 

Lockwood George, tinner, bds. Warford House. 

LORD LOUIS F., (Hanford & Lord) h i6 Main. 

Lott John, car inspector, h Lyman ave. 

Lowman Everette H., postal clerk, bds. 473 Chemung. 

Lowman Harriet C, widow HoveyE., resident, h 473 Chemung. 

Lowman Nathan B., clerk L. V. R. R. Ft. office, h 473 Chemung. 

Lubars Anna D., widow John F., bds. 11 Lincoln. 

Luce John G., book-keeper First Nat. Bank, h 22 E. Main. 

Luce Joseph D., machinist, h Loder. 

LUM DANIEL J., insurance, Waverly, h do. 

Lum Mattie C, teacher, bds. Waverly. 

LYFORD FREDERICK E., cashire First Nat. Bank, h 21 Park Place. 

LYMAN MOSES, resident, h Waverly. 

Lynch James, clerk, bds. Loder. 

Lynch Rose A., millinery over 232 Broad, h do. 

Lyon , farmer, h 1 1 1 Park ave. 

LYON GEORGE F., (Hall & Lyon) h Fulton. 

Lyons Charles T., physician and surgeon, retired, h 204 Chemung. 

Lyons Smith E., clerk, h 29 Waverly. 

Mack Mary Mrs., resident, h Broad. 

Mahoney John, shoemaker, Broad, h 105 Chemung. 

Mandeville Emmet, painter, bds. 16 Providence. 

Mandeville Henry D., fireman, h Pine. 

Mandeville Mahlon H., jeweler over 228 Broad, h iii Fulton. 

Manners Vincent C, clerk, bds. 11 Broad. 

MANNING ELWIN W., manager for Mrs. E. W. Manning, 249 Broad, h 

103 Waverly. 
MANNING E. W. MRS., millinery of all kinds, 249 Broad, h 103 Waverly. 
Manning Gurdon G., justice of the peace, over 206 Broad, h 37 Clark. 
Maroney Daniel, railroad conductor, h 140 Howard. 
Moseley George E., laborer, h 210 Howard. 
Masonic Hall, Thomas Salisbury, janitor. Manners Block, Broad. 
Masterson Julius C, retired, bds. 21 Johnson. 
Maxwell Emily A., widow Albert P., h 18 Providence. 
Maxwell Frank B., conductor,. h Clark. 
McArdle Bernard, blacksmith, 302 Broad, h Clinton ave. 
McCarthy Daniel, engineer, h 19 Loder. 
McCarthy James, laborer, h Erie. 

McDonald Amanda, widow Alexander, h 422 Chemung. 
McDonald David, baggageman, h 41 Waverly. 
McDonald Duncan, retired, h 40 Waverly. 
McDonald DUNCAN, locomotive engineer, h Chemung. 
McDonald DUNCAN J., news and variety store, 247 Broad, h 422 

Chemung. 
McDonald Eliza, widow Morris, h 14 Clark. 

2 



1 8 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

McDonald Nellie, book-keeper Mills & O'Brian, h Howard cor. Spaulding. 

McDonald Owen, laborer, h 201 Howard. 

McDonald Owen, Jr., laborer, h 201 Howard. 

McDonald Patrick, bar-tender Tioga House, bds. do. 

McDonald SARAH a. MRS., tailoring and gents' furnishing goods, 265 

Broad, h Chemung. 
McDonald Wellington, clerk, bds. Warford House. 
McDonough Patrick, bds. 345 Broad. 
McElwain Alexander, shoemaker, h 5 Chemung. 
McElwain Margarett, widow Robert, h 5 Chemung. 
McEwen William, emp. Novelty Works, h 155 Waverly. 
McGuffie Matthew, clerk U. S. Ex. Co., h Loder. 
McHale Patrick J., emp. L. V. R. R., h 19 Johnson. 
McINTYRE ALBERT J., mason, Lincoln, h do. 
McKerrow William, car inspector, h 1 1 1 Lincoln. 
McKibbin Henry, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 18 Orange. 
IMcMahbn John, brakeman, bds. Commercial Hotel. 
-McNanara George, cigarmaker, h over 219 Broad. 
McNeirney John, laborer, h 376 Broad. 
McPherson Nancy, widow, Alexander, bds. 34 Broad. 
McShane Edward Rev., pastor St. James church, h 103 Clark. 
Mead Charles A., carpenter, h Spring. 
Mead Eadie W., photographer, bds. 10 Providence. 
Mead Joseph, traveling salesman, h 12 Pine. 
Mead Montgomery, photographer, h 10 Providence. 
Mead Tabitha J. Mrs., photographer over 204 Broad, h 10 Providence. 
Meeker Mrs., widow John, h 24 Providence. 
Melvin Emma Miss, laundress, h 2 Pennsylvania ave. 
Mercereau & Co., (John and Henry) cigar manuf. Broad cor. Penn. ave. 
Mercereau Henry C., (Mercereau & Co.) h 4 Park Place. 
Mercereau Henry, (Mercereau & Co.) h Maple. 
Mercereau John, (Mercereau & Co.) h Maple. 
Mercereau John D., (Mercereau & Co.) h 15 Park Place. 
MERRIAM BROS.,'(H. G. &C. E.) hardware, 235 Broad and 3 Waverly. 
MERRIAM CHARLES E., (Merriam Bros.) Broad, h 414 Chemung. 
Merriam Frank W., book-keeper 356 Broad, bds. 414 Chemung. 
MERRIAM HENRY G., (Merriam Bros.) h 13 Park ave. 
Merrill Arthur T., emp. R. R. shops Sayre, h 10 Tioga. 
Merrill Elisha B., retired, h 22 Lincoln. 
Merrill Lena E., emp. Toy Shop, bds. 10 Tioga. 
Merrill Luke T., retired, h 109 Clark. 
Miller Cassandra B., dressmaker 482 Chemung, h do. 
Miller Charles, drayman, his Johnson. 
Miller Charles W., tinsmith, h 108 Howard. 
Miller Edmund, retired, h 23 Fulton. 
Miller Emma Mrs., resident, h 26 Waverly. 
MILLER LOUIS C, (Barnes & Miller) h 15 Johnson. 
Miller Samuel W., meat market, 248 Broad, h 482 Chemung. 
MILLS & O'BRIAN, (T. M. & M. D. O'B.) bottling works, Elizabeth. 
Mills Charles L., farmer 30, h 113 Chemung. 
MILLS THEODORE, (Mills & O'Brian) h 25 Clark. 
Mills Thomas, cabinet maker, h 103 Spaulding. 

STARKEY ic IFINTERS, Wholesale and Retail Drngglsts, Otrego, 



BARTON— WAVERLY VILLAGE. I9 

Millspaugh Paul, clerk, bds. 109 Waverly. 

Mink George R., cigarmaker, h 10 Athens. 

Minick Benjamin F., retired, bds. 2 Orchard. 

Minnick I. H. Mrs., dressmaker 28 Loder, h do. 

Minnick Isaac H., machinist, h 28 Loder. 

Minnick Robert F., clerk, bds 28 Loder. 

Mitchell Thomas S., machinist, h 3 Athens. 

MIX JAMES F., carpenter, R. R. shops Sayre, h 159 Waverly. 

Moelich Julius, machinist, h 217 Howard, 

Monyhan Johanna, widow John, h 138 Howard. 

Monyhan John, blacksmith, h 138 Howard. 

Monyhan Patrick, blacksmith, bds. 138 Howard. 

Morgan William, fireman, h 316 Broad. 

Moore Lemuel C., carpenter, h 129 Howard. 

Morgan David, painter, 5 1 Waverly, h do. 

MORGAN FREDERICK S., mason, Clark,' h do. 

Morgan George B., mason, h 16 Johnson. 

Morgan George Mrs., milliner, 16 Johnson, h do. 

MORGAN JOHN W., mason contractor, h 112 Lincoln. 

Morley Dwight, saloon and billiards, 6 Waverly, h do. 

Morris Charles, emp. Novelty Works, bds. 16 Providence. 

Mosier Hiram W., carpenter, h Pine. 

Moore Lemuel C, carpenter, h 22 Maple, 

Mopre William E., farmer, h 105 Park ave. 

Mott Amasa S., tailor over 222 Broad, h 28 Park ave. 

Mott William N., tailor over 222 Broad, h 28 Park ave. 

Mullock Albert, (Mullock Bros.) h Elm. 

Mullock Bros., (Corwin& Albert) drugs and medicines, 229 Broad. 

Mullock Corwin, (Mullock Bros.) h 131 Waverly. 

Mullock Gabriel L., (Ornamental Sign Company) h 135 Waverly. 

MULOCK LEWIS W., retired, h 135 Waverly.— 

Muncey Adolph, emp. L. V. R. R., bds. Loder, 

Muncey Alfred, carpenter, h Loder. 

Munn Frank E., (Sager & Munn) h 106 Waverly. 

Murdoch Charles, foreman Erie transfer, rooms Campbell Block, Broad. 

Murdoch Eliza N., (E. N. Murdoch & Co.) h 123 Waverly. 

Murdoch E. N. Sr Co., (J. K. Murdoch) fancy goods, 222 Broad. 

Murdoch John K., (E. N. Murdoch & Co.) also agent U. S. Ex. Co., h 123 

Waverly. 
Murray George S., clerk, bds. Pine. 
Murray Harriet E., widow Thomas J., resident, h Pine. 
Murray Hattie C, dressmaker, bds. Pine. 
Murray Isaac C, baker, h Pine. 
Murray Jacob, retired, h Chemung. 
Murray Mary L., dressmaker. Pine, bds do. 
Murry "^G^orge S., clerk, h 114 Pine. 
Myer John M., retired, h 16 Elm. 
Myer Samuel S., laborer, bds. 16 Elm. 

Myers Charles K., tobacconist and gunsmith, 201 Broad, h 168 Clark. 
Myers David W., carpenter, h ig6 Clark. 
Myers Edward D., clerk, bds. 115 Clark. 
Myers George L., baker, bds. 11^ Clark. 
STARKET & WINTERS, Drngelstci. Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



20 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Myers Leonard D., constable and deputy sheriff, h 115 Clark. 

Nelson Elmer, dentist, over 251 Broad, h Bradford. 

Nelson James, mason, h 146 Waverly. 

Nelson Myron H., conductor, h 123 Fulton. 

Nelson Phineas, harness and trunks, 127 Broad, h Clark. 

Nevins James P., clerk, bds. 37 Clark. 

Newland Charles, clerk, bds. Clark. 

Newland Edward H., traveling salesman, h Clark. 

Newell Frank M., (Newell Mfg. Co.) h Clark. 

Newell Stephen H., traveling salesman, h 30 Fulton. 

Nichols Eben, carpenter, h 1 1 Pine. 

NICHOLS HURLEY L., tobacco and cigars, 213 Broad, h Pine. 

Nichols Leonard H., bartender, bds. over 209 Broad. 

NOBLE ALBERT C, (Noble & Noble) h Elizabeth. 

*NOBLE & NOBLE, (W. H. & A. C.) publishers Weekly Tribune, Elizabeth. 

Noble Mary B., widow Dr. Carlton M., bds. Elizabeth. 

NOBLE WILLIAM H., (Noble & Noble) h Elizabeth. 

Nolan James, blacksmith, h 12 Providence. 

Noonan Mortice, laborer, h 220 Erie. 

North W. Edward, carpenter, h 140 Clark. 

Northup Emery H., clerk, h Pitney. 

O'Brian Edward, brakeman, bds. 12 Providence. 

O'Brian James, retired, bds. 36 Fulton. 

O'BRIAN MICHAEL D., (Mills & O'Brian) h .36 Fulton. 

O'Brien Thomas, brakeman, h 27 Park Place. 

O'Farrell Edward J., clerk, h Fulton. 

Olney Caleb B., retired, h 16 Broad. 

Orange Emily H., widow George W., h 206 Chemung. 

Ornamental Sign Company, (G. L. Mullock & S. C. Smith) Broad. 

Osterhout Katie, dressmaker, 23 Broad, bds do. 

Owen Hannah, widow William P., resident, h 40 Fulton. 

Owen Ithiel P., painter, h 343 Broad. 

Palmer Kate, widow Luman, h 24 Lincoln. 

Parks Albert E., painter, h 29 Providence. 

Parks James R., retired, h 11 Lincoln. 

Parks Ned L., emp. pipe foundry, h Erie cor. Pennsylvania ave. 

Parshall Luther, real estate, h 464 Chemung. 

Parshall Ransom, retired, h 1 2 Elm. 

Parsons & Freestone, (James F. P. & George S. F.) groceries and provisions, 

207 Broad. 
Parsons Fred K., fireman, h 31 Orange. 
Parsons James F., (Parsons & Freestone) h Loder. 
Paul James M., emp. M. Lyman and farmer 54, h Moore. 
Payne Frederick Y., travehng salesman, h 6 Park Place. 
Payne Sarah, widow Hiram, h 204 Chemung. 
Pearman Julia M., resident, h 140 Clark. 
Pease David, marble cutter, h 120 Chemung. 
, Peironnet Emma V., widow John S., resident, h 26 Waverly. 
Pendell Charles D., emp. Toy Shop, bds. 143 Lincoln. . 

Pendell John Lyman, emp. Toy Shop, bds. 143 Lincoln. 
Pendell John R. Rev., (Bap.) h 144 Lincoln. 
Pendell Mary E. O., music teacher, bds. 143 Lincoln. 
Pendleton Charles E., ex-cashier Home Savings Bank, bds. 106 Penn. ave. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 21 



Penney Eleanor, widow Nelson F., resident, h 308 Pennsylvania ave. 

Pepper Frank, laborer, h 49 Orange. 

Perkins Edward F., clerk, h Broad. 

Perkins Frank A., clerk, bds. Broad cor. Chemung. 

PERKINS FRED C, clothing, hats, caps and gents' furnishing goods, 208 

Main, h 70 Fulton. 
Perkins La Fayette, traveling salesman, i Broad. 
Perry Hanson, emp. Sniffen & Scott, h Clark. 
Personius Daniel V., (Barnum & Personius) 1 2 Clinton ave. 
Persons E. Delos, groceries, crockery and provisions, 206 Broad, h 38 Clark. 
Phillips Frank W., plumber, h Chemung. 
Phillips Harry E., clerk 25 1 Broad, h at Sayre. 
Phillips John W., painter and paper-hanger, bds Chemung. 
Phillips Thomas J., (Phillips & Curtis) h 45 Waverly. 
Piatt Susan, widow John, bds. 443 Chemung. 
Pierce Alonzo E., emp. Erie R. R., h 108 Chemung. 
Pierce Amelia M., widow John H., resident, bds. 126 Waverly. 
Pierce Henry G., commercial traveler, h 323 Broad. 
Pierce Josiah, retired, h.io6 Chemung. 
Pike George, clerk, bds. 36 Pine. 
Pike Grove N., meat market, 109 Broad, h 36 Pine; 
PILGRIM FREDERICK, bakery and confectionery, 241 Broad, h do. 
PoUeys Ellen D., 'widow William, h 112 Waverly. 
Polleys Harriet, compositor, bds. 112 Waverly. 
Poole Eva M., milliner, bds. 6 Tioga. 
Post Henry W., butcher, h Providence. 
Post John C, laborer, h 70 Fulton. • 
Powers Frank, brakeman, h iii Erie. 
Powers John, shoemaker, h 130 Lincoln. 
Powell Levi J., saloon and restaurant, h 115 Howard. 
Price George, brakeman, h Broad n Pennsylvania ave. 
Price Nathaniel W., retired, h 5 Pine. 
Price N. W. Mrs., carpet weaver, 5 Pine h do. 
Price Willis H., carpenter, h Blizard. 

PUFF & WILLIAMS, (M. F. P. & A. D. W.) meat market, Fulton. 
PUFF MYRON F., (Pufif & Williams) h Pleasant. 
Purdy Charles E., saloon, 125 Broad, h do. 
Quick Adeline L., resident, bds. 113 Fulton. 
Quick Alvin, emp. L. V. R. R., bds. 16 Providence. 
Quick Fannie C, emp. Toy Factory, bds. 113 Fulton. 
Quick Mary, widow Stephen C, resident, h 113 Fulton. 
Quick Minnie Mrs., private school, 3 Athens, h do. 
Quick Susan A., emp. Toy Factory, bds. 113 Fulton. 
Quigley Michael, groceries and provisions, 263 Broad, h Loder. 
Quimby Elmer, blacksmith, Broad, bds. 34 do. ■ 
Race Jafeez W., resident, h Waverly. 
Racklyeft John, boots and shoes, 267 Broad, h 36 Broad. 
Ralyea William' H., (Clark & Ralyea) h Fulton. 
Randolph Byron F., conductor, h 132 Clark. 
Reckhow Sarah A., widow Isaac, resident, h 21 Pennsylvania ave. 
Reese Elias, night watchman, h Fulton. 
Reeve James I., retired, h 27 Park avenue. 
Reigeluth Conrad, drug clerk, bds. 164 Clark. 



22 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Reigeluth John J., tinsmith, h Clinton ave. 

Reigeluth Louisa, dressmaker, bds. 164 Clark. 

Reigeluth Mary, widow Jacob, h 164 Clark. 

Rew Samuel, barber, bds. Warford House. 

Reynolds James, blacksmith, bds. Broad. 

Reynolds Johanna, widow John, h Broad. 

Rezeau Harry G., saloon 209 Broad, h do. 

Rezeau Joseph O., saloon 209 Broad, h do. 

Richardson Isaac, barkeeper, h Waverly. 

Riggs George W., carpenter, h 9 Pine. 

RIKER JAMES, author and librarian, h 23 Park ave. 

Ritz Joseph, shoemaker, bds. Christie House. 

Robbins Harry E., jeweler, h 36 Broad. 

Robinson Jesse, painter, h 9 Orange. 

Rodhlof John, saloon, 273 Broad, h do. 

ROGERS CHARLES H., contractor and builder, 413 Chemung, h do. 

Rogers Edwin E., clerk L. V. R. R. Ft. office, h 125 Chemung. 

Rogers Irvin H., clerk L. V. R. R. Ft. office, h Pleasant. 

Rogers William T., retired, h 28 Lincoln. 

Rolfe Cornelius J., brakemah, bds. 15 Providence. 

Rolfe Peter B., teamster, his Providence. 

Rolfe Willet W., butcher, bds. 15 Providence. 

Rood Horace W., brakeman, h 125 Erie. 

Root Hubert A., emp. R. R. shops Sayre, h 133 Lincoln. 

Rose David A., pattern maker, h 7 Loder. 

Rosecrants Abram, laborer, bds. 39 Broad. 

Ross Frank, carpenter and builder, 10 Pine, h do. 

Rowland Bert K., clerk, bds. 13 Waverly. 

Rowland John R., wines and liquors, also carriages and wagons, also Burle's 
patent egg preserver, 242 Broad, h 13 Waverly. 

Rowland Kate A., teacher, bds. Pennsylvania ave. n Broad. 

Rowland William A., carpenter and builder, h Pennsylvania ave. n Broad. 

Ruher Louis, machinist, h over 271 Broad. 

Ryan Bridget, widow Michael, h Broad. 

Ryan Conrad, laborer, h Erie cor. Pennsylvania ave. 

Ryan Dennis, telegraph lineman, h Erie cor. Pennsylvania ave. 

Ryan Jeremiah, town collector, bds. 10 Btoad. 

Ryan John, railroad emp., rooms over 265 Broad. 

Ryan Thomas B., ass't yard master Erie R. R., h 7 Pennsylvania ave. 

Sager & Munn, (T. A. S. and F. E. Munn) groceries, crockery and provi- 
sions, 234 Broad. 

Sager Alvin D., clerk, h 104 Waverly. 

Sager Thaddeus A., (Sager & Munn) h 119 Fulton. 

Salisbury Thomas L., painter, 130 Waverly, h do. 

Salonsky Isaac, clothing and gents' furnishings, 224 Broad, h do. 

SANDERS CHARLES H., (Farley & Sanders) h Fulton. 

Sanders Hiram E., policeman, h T03 Howard. 

Sargeant James C, emp. freight house, h 28 Orange. 

Sargeant J. C. Mrs., dressmaker, 28 Orange, h do. 

Sawyer Charles H., farmer 280, h 474 Chemung. 

Sawyer Fannie, widow Moses, h 109 Waverly. 

Sawyer Frederick A., cashier Citizens Bank, h' 474 Chemung. 

Sawyer Fred H., emp. Novelty Company, h 2 Orchard, 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE, ij 



Sawyer Hugh T., clerk L. V. R. R. freight office, h 109 Waverly. 

SAWYER J. THEODORE, president Citizens Bank, h 451 Chemung. 

Sawyer Julina, widow John L., h 451 Chemung. 

Sawyer Mary, widow James M., resident, h 25 Park Place. 

SAYRE BUTTER PACKAGE CO., (R. D. and H. C. Van Deuzer, and 

T. F. Page) Factoryville, Main. 
Scanlan Bartholomew, emp. L. V. freight house, h 9 Loder. 
Scanlon Martin, telegraph operator, bds. Pennsylvania ave. n Broad. 
Schutt William H., clerk, h 10 Orange. 
Schutte Magdalena, widow Rudolph, h 115 Howard. 
Schutte Rudolph, Jr., clerk, bds. 115 Howard. 
Scott Charles E., Loyal Sock coal, 256 Broad, h 7 Athens. 
Scott Robert, clerk, bds. Pennsylvania ave. 
Scott Robert H., (SnifFen & Scott) h 20 Park ave. 
Seacord John, contractor and builder, 27 Lincoln, h do. 
Sedgwick William, retired jeweler, h 127 Clark. 
Seely Charles, saloon and restaurant, 129 Broad. 
Seely Edmund, boarding, 1 2 Park ave. 
Seely Frederick, bartender, bds. 129 Broad. 
SEELY WILLIAM F., groceries, crockery and provisions, 257 Broad, h 

107 Pennsylvania ave. 
Shaehan Michael, saloon, also prop. Tioga Bottling Works, Broad cor. Loder. 
Shannessy Patrick, emp. Erie R. R., h 127 Erie. 
Sharpe Arminda, widow William, h 1 1 Broad. 
Shaw Hulda J., dress and cloak maker, 9 Waverly, h do. 
Shaw Robert R., poor-master, h 1 1 Johnson. 
SHEAR JOHN C, prop. Waverly Steam Flouring Mill, 300 Broad, h lor 

Park ave. 
Sheeler Edward P., night rJerk U. S. Ex. Co., h Fulton. 
Shehan Patrick, resident, h 375 Broad. 
Sheldon Mary B., widow Charles H., resident, h 20 Park ave. 
Shelp Charles F., lumber, h 131 Lincoln. 
Shepard William Mrs., resident, bds. Warford House. 
SHERMAN CHARLES W., mason, 428 Chemung, h do. 
Sherry Hiram I., horse dealer, h 6 Pine. 
Sherry J. Robert, veterinary surgeon, bds. 6 Pine. 
Sherwood WiUiam, emp. pipe foundry, h 343 Broad. 
Shipman Charles H., conductor, h 43 Waverly. 
Shoemaker Jabez H., (B. Gerould & Co.) h Broad. 

SHOEMAKER JUDGE F., att'y at law, over 214 Broad, h 505 Chemung. 
Shoemaker Samuel O., emp. U. S. express company, h 156 Clark. 
Shook William, commercial traveler, h 1 8 Pennsylvania ave. 
Shriver Christina, widow Henry, h 9 Elm. 
Shulenburg Sarah, dress and cloak maker, 304 Chemung. 
Simmers E. Louisa, widow John W., resident, ii6 Chemung. 
Simmons Edward W., clerk, hit Johnson. 
Simmons Frederick C, clerk, bds. 71 Fulton. 
Simmons John H., cabinet maker, h 27 Providence. 
Simmons Silas W., retired, h 71 Fulton. 

Simmons William R., groceries and provisions, 269 Broad, h Howard. 
Simpson Elliot B., blacksmith, bds. 437 Chemung. 

Simpson Isaac D., blacksmith, cor. Penn. ave. and Broad, h 437 Chemung. 
SIMPSON WILLIAM H., blacksmith, 301 Broad, h 439 Chemung. 



24 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Sirncoe Eli, contractor and builder, Orange, h 15 do. 
Skellenger Charles, meat cutter, bds. 36 Pine. 

SLAUGHTER & VAN ATTA, (S. W. S. and J. C. Van A.) drugs, medi- 
cines and wall paper, 233 Broad. 
SLAUGHTER S. W., (Slaughter & Van Atta) also vice-prest. Citizens 

Bank, h 408 Chemung. 
Slawson Andrew A., postmaster, undertaking and furniture, 223 Broad, h 443 

Chemung. 
Slawson Jeremiah M., musical merchandise and sewing machines, 202 Broad, 

h 32 Waverly. 
Sligh Susan Mrs., resident, bds. 10 Athens. 
Sliney Charles, laborer, rooms 33 Waverly. 
Sliney Charles H., book-keeper Erie R. R. Co., associate press correspondent, 

bds. Warford House. 
Sliney William H., yard master Erie R. R., bds. Warford House. 
Slocum Olney, clerk, bds. Orange. 
Smead Edward, baker, bds. 34 Broad. 
Smeaton Mary A., teacher, bds. 152 Clark. 
SMEATON THOMAS, mason contractor, 152 Clark. 
Smith Augustus W., emp. Novelty Works, h 28 Orange. 
Smith Bros. & Co., (W. J., M. O. and H. G. S.) picture mouldings, frames, 

etc., over 207 Broad. 
Smith Charles O., (Smith Bros.) 19 Chemung. 
Smith Clayton A., foreman Free Press office, bds. 17 Fulton. 
Smith Daniel S., baker, h 2 1 Fulton. 
Smith D. S. Mrs., dressmaker, 21 Fulton, h do. 
Smith Edwin S., resident, h 37 Waverly. 
Smith Floyd, emp. Erie R. R., bds. 141 Waverly. 
Smith Fred E., clerk L. V. R. R. freight office, h 70 Broad. 
Smith Fred F., tinsmith, bds. 184 Clark. 
Smith Henry G., (Smith Bros. & Co.) h in Candor. 
Smith John L., laborer, h 184 Clark. 
Smith Mary K., widow Hanford, h 37 Wkverly. 
Smith Merritt W., blacksmith, h 40 Broad. 
Smith Minor O., (Smith Bros. & Co.) his Chemung. 
Smith Olin A., emp. livery, and farmer 50, h 157 Clark. 
Smith S. Charles, sign writing. Broad cor. Pine, h 9 Orange. 
Smith WiUis J., (Smith Bros. & Co.) bds. Fulton. 
Smith W. M. Adelbert, laborer, bds. 37 Waverly. 
Smitt Antoni B., merchant tailor, 10 Fulton, h 125 do. 
Snell Patrick, laborer, h Erie. 
Sniflfen & Scott, (H. H. S. and R. H. S.) grain, coal, seeds, wool, wagons and 

farm implements, Broad n Loder. 
Sniffen Henry H., (Sniffen & Scott) bds. Tioga House. 
Snook Frederick M., dentist, over 231 Broad, h 13 Pennsylvania ave. 
Snyder De LaFayette, resident, h 119 Clark. 
Somers Maurice, laborer, h 204 Howard. 
Space Henry, traveling salesman, bds. over 267 Broad. 
Space Jennie L., widow John A., dressmaker, over 267 Broad, h do. 
Spaulding William H., police justice, h 113 Clark. 
Speh Charles Prof., teacher of music, French and German. 
Spencer Charles F., boots and shoes, 226 Broad, h 445 Chemung. 
Spencer C. I. Mrs., resident, 104 Lincoln. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 2$ 



Spencer George M., emp. Swift's ice-house, h Broad n Pennsylvania ave. 

Sproul Andrew, railroad conductor, h 5 Spaulding. 

Sproul Herbert L., clerk, bds. 5 Spaulding. 

Stalker Albert, emp. Novelty Works, h Broad. 

Stanley Belle, art teacher, loi Pennsylvania ave., bds. Broad. 

Stanley Clark M., dentist, h Cad well. 

Stark Somers J., railroad conductor, h 203 Howard. 

Steele Edward J., telegraph operator, bds. Warford House. 

Stevenson William, clerk, h 244 Broad. 

Stevenson William R., locomotive engineer, h 21 Providence. 

Steward Malvina, widow Loren G., bds. 2 Ithaca. 

Stewart William H., retired, h 13 Park Place. 

Stone George P., machinist, bds. 12 Pennsylvania ave. 

Stone James R., retired, h 105 Park ave. 

Stone William P., resident, h 12 Pennsylvania ave. 

Stout Ernest A., book-keeper, 235 Broad, h over do. 

STOWELL HOLLIS L., dry goods, 237 Broad, h 405 Chemung. 

Strange Matthew, laborer, h 4 Broad. 

Strouse Huldah, widow Neal, dressmaker over 218 Broad, h do. 

Suiter Sophia, widow Robert, bds. 28 Loder. 

Sullivan Anna, dressmaker, 105 Chemung, bds. do. 

Sullivan Etta, dressmaker, 315 Broad, h do. 

Sullivan Hannah, dressmaker, 315 Broad, h do. 

Sullivan Mary, dressmaker, 315 Broad, h do. 

Sullivan Michael, emp. Erie R. R., h 26 Providence. 

Sullivan Michael, track foreman, bds. 9 Loder. 

Sutton Augustus, barber, bds. Warford House. 

Sutton Clarence M., emp. Novelty Works, bds. 466 Chemung. 

Sutton Ernest, emp. Toy works, h loi Pennsylvania ave. 

Sutton Frank M., cabinet maker, h 466 Chemung. 

Swaig Henry, porter Tioga Hotel, bds. do. 

SWAIN LESTER, groceries, provisions and restaurant, Fulton, h do. 

Swain William H., book-keeper, 251 Broad, h 117 Howard. 

SWEET WESLEY, furniture and undertaking, 243 Broad, h 10 Park ave. 

Taladay Frederick, carpenter, bds. 5 Providence. 

Tannery Harriet, widow James B., resident, 423 Chemung. 

TANNERY IDA Miss, millinery, over 233 Broad, h 243 Chemung. 

Tannery Mary, widow, h 17 Clark. 

Taylor John L., pastor ist Presbyterian church, h 11 Park Place. 

Teachman Isaac P., (Carr & Teachman) h 30 Chemung. 

Telephone Exchange, (F. E. Smith, of Elmira, Mgr.) over First Nat. Bank. 

Terry Edward H., mason, h 5 Pennsylvania ave. 

Terry Edward H., Jr., shipping clerk, 275 Broad, bds. 5 Pennsylvania ave. 

Terry Edward H. Mrs., dressmaker, 5 Pennsylvania ave., h do. 

Terry Fred S., city baggage express, bds. 160 Clark. 

Terry Ira M., carpenter, h Broad. 

Terry John, retired, h Hickory. 

Terry Orrin T., clerk, bds. 5 Pennsylvania ave. 

Terry T. Jefferson, car inspector, h 1 60 Clark. 

Terry Walter T., car inspector, h 160 Clark. 

Tew William E., real estate and insurance, over 214 Broad, h do.' 

Thatcher Harris C, manager The W. S. Thatcher Co., h 12 Park Place. 

Thatcher Helen, widow Walter S., woven wire mattresses, h 12 Park Place. 



26 BARTON^WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Thayer Roma B.. emp. Novelty Works, h 313 Broad. 

THE CITIZENS BANK, (J. T. Sawyer, pres't, S. W. Slaughter, vice-pres't, 

F. A. Sawyer, cashier) 214 Broad. 
*THE WAVERLY ADVOCATE, (Edgar L. Vincent, pub., and George 

D. Genung, editor, weekly) 4 Elizabeth. 
The W S. Thatcher Co., (Harry C. Thatcher, Mgr.) manuf. woven wire 

mattresses, Fulton. 
THOMAS HOLLY W., (Fairchild & Thomas) h 14 S. Main. 
Thompson Abner, brakeman, bds. Commercial Hotel. 
Thompson Abram J., clerk, h 144 Waverly. 
Thompson Guy M., emp. Novelty Works, bds. 144 Waverly. 
Thompson Sadie, teacher, bds. 3 Providence. 
Thompson William E., butcher, h 8 Pine. 
Thrall Emery, R. R. conductor, h. 348 Broad. 
Tillman David B., book-keeper, bds. over 253 Broad. 
Tillman Moses, carpenter, h over 253 Broad. 
Tilton Edson A., clerk, bds. in Howard. 
Tilton Ira, clerk, bds. in Broad. 
Tilton Isaac S., clerk, bds. in Howard. 

Tioga Bottling Works, Michael Shaehan, prop.. Broad cor. Loder. 
TIOGA HOTEL, Ackley & Bailey, proprs., FultJn Cor. Elizabeth. 
Tioga Laundry, George B. Witter, prop., 113 Broad. 
Tobin James, section foreman, Erie R. R., h. 119 Erie. 
Toppen Henry, painter, 114 Waverly, h do. 
Towner Jane, tailoress, h 9 Waverly. 

Tozer John F., livery stable, Fulton, opp. Opera House, h 30 Waverly. 
Tozer Lavina, widow Charles P., h 129 Waverly. 

Tracy Edward G., drugs, and wall paper, 228 Broad, h Fulton cor. Chemung. 
Tracy John L., books, stationery and newsroom, 204 Broad, h 3 Orange. 
Travis Landes I^., locomotive engineer, h 10 Spalding. 
Travis Littleton, coachman, h 401 Chemung. 
Troutman Jacob, brakeman, h 30 Broad. 
Tucker John T., physician and surgeon, over 224 Broad, h do. 

Turner Amelia, widow Joseph, h 144 Howard. 
Turner Edward, locomotive engineer, h 20 Park Place. 

Turney William E, confectioner, 239 Broad, h 130 Clark. 

Tuthill Caroline A., teacher, bds. Waverly. 

Tuthill Charles E., clerk, h 124 Waverly. 

Tuthill Elvira, widow Jacob G., h Waverly. 

Twist Michael, mason, bds. 381 Broad. 

Tyrrell Augustus, physician, over 222 Broad, h do. 

United States Ex. Co., J. K. Murdoch, agt., 8 Fulton. 

Unger Solomon, clothing and gents' furnishings, 230 Broad, h in Elmira. 

Unger Adolph, clothing and merchant tailor, 221 Broad, h Fulton. 

Updike Archibald, market gardener, h 85 Clark. 

Updike Frank A., carpenter, h Clinton ave. 

Utter John, architect, h 120 Howard. 

Vail Alonzo V. C, lumber dealer, h 1 28 Waverly. 

Vail Daniel, resident, h 121 Howard. 

Vail Merton W., painter, h 309 Pennsylvania ave. 

Vail Michael, brakeman, bds. Warford House. 

Vail Michael, switchman, bds. over 263 Broad. 

VanAmburgh Abdial B., wagon shop 304 Broad, h 133 Howard. 



BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 27 

VanAtta Azariah, contractor and builder, iii Pennsylvania ave., h do. 

VanAtta Clarence, clerk, h 109 Fulton. 

VanAtta E. Clair, clerk, h 9 Tioga. 

VanAtta Edwin H., drug clerk, bds. 5 Park ave. 

VAN ATTA JOHN C, (Slaughter & VanAtta) h 5 Park ave. 

VanCleft Mary J., dressmaker, bds. 139 Waverly. 

VanCleft Sarah A., widow Benjamin O., h 139 Waverly. 

VanCleft Wells, laborer, h Hickory. 

VANDERLIP CHARLES T., D. D. S., dentist, preservation of the 

natural teeth a specialty, over 201 Broad, h Cadwell. 
VanDerlip Sisters, (Mary and Elizabeth) dressmakers, h 24 Park ave. 
VanDermark Edward, porter, Tioga Hotel, bds. do. 
VanDermark Mrs., widow Albert, bds. 14 Pennsylvania ave. 
VanDeuzer Annie, teacher, bds. 468 Chemung. 
VanDeuzer Dell, emp. pipe foundry, h over 263 Broad. 
VANDEUZER HOWARD C, (Sayre Butter Package Co.) feds. Tioga 

Hotel. 
VanDeuzer Richard, mechanic, bds. over 263 Broad. 
VanDeuzer Richard D., (Sayre Butter Package Co.) h 468 Chemung. 
Van Gaasbeck, clerk, Christie House, bds. do. 
VanGaasbeck Josephine, widow John, h 132 Chemung. 

VanGorden Harry M., sexton of cemetery, h 38 Pine. 

VanGorden Mary E., dressmaker, bds. 38 Pine. 

VanVelsor & Co., (Alexander Zoltowski) merchant tailors, 212 Broad. 

VanVelsor George B., (VanVelsor & Co.) h 117 Waverly. 

VanVelsor Jane, widow Benjamin, bds. 117 Waverly. 

Vaughn William, retired, h 16 Park ave. 

Vibbert Charles M., contractor and builder, h 148 Waverly. 

VINCENT EDGAR L., publisher The Waverly Advocate, h Clark. 

Voorheirs Barbara, widow Sherman, h Blizard. 

Voorheirs Stephen, cigar maker, bds. Blizard. 

Vreeland Isaac S., M. D., physician and surgeon, over 229 Broad, h Penn- 
sylvania ave. 

WADSWORTH SAMUEL H., (Wadsworth & Kelsey) Hotel Warford. 

WADSWORTH & KELSEY, props. Hotel Warford, Broad cor. Fulton. 
. Waldo George F., retired, h loi Pennsylvania ave. 

WALKER EDWARD E., (T. S. Walker & Son) h 306 Pennsylvania ave. 

Walker Eliza, resident, bds. 6 Elm. ^ 

WALKER HOWARD S., clerk, bds. Waverly. 

WALKER LEANDER, groceries and provisions, 253 Broad, h Waverly. 

Walker N. Dell, widow George H., resident, h. 102 Lincoln. 

WALKER T. S. & SON, (Edward E.) groceries and provisions, 250 and 
252 Broad. 

WALKER THADDEUS S., (T. S. Walker & Son) h r 60. 

WALLACE ALFRED H., carpenter, h 150 Waverly. 

Wallace Grandsville, porter, Tioga Hotel, bds. do. 

Wallace William A., emp. Novelty Works, bds. 150 Waverly. 

Walsh Maggie, milliner, bds. over 232 Broad. 

Walton S. Lincoln, tanner, h 73 Fulton. 

Ward Amrose, emp. planing mill, h 37 Orange. 

Ward John E., resident. 

Ward Mary, widow Hugh, h Loder. 

Ware Walter, inventor, h 27 Park ave. 



28 BARTON — WAVERLY VILLAGE. 

Warner Anna P., resident, bds. 1 1 Park ave. 

WARNER WILLIAM F., lawyer, also pres't Waverly Gas Light Co., 
Waverly, h ii Providence. 

Warren James, emp. wheel foundry, h Erie. 

Waters Edward T., raarble cutter, h Erie. 

WATROUS BROS., (William L., and estate of Addison) dry goods, cloaks, 
and carpets, 227 Broad. 

WATROUS WILLIAM L., (Watrous Bros.) h 14 Park Place. 

Watson John, mason, h 102 Waverly. 

WAVERLY CASH STORK, (Barnes & Miller, props.) groceries and pro- 
visions, 277 Broad. 

Waverly Opera House, C. Mullock, manager. Fulton. 
■Waverly Steam Flouring Mills, John C. Sheir. prop., 300 Broad. 

'WAVERLY TRIBUNE, (weekly) Noble & Noble, publishers, Elizabeth. 

Weatherly Leonora, widow Perry, h 44 Waverly. 

WEBB HENRY A., prop. Webb's Dining Hall, 216 Broad, h do. 

WEBB'S DINING HALL, Henry A. Webb, prop., 216 Broad. 

Welch John, laborer, h Erie. 

Weller Charles M., baggageman, h 105 Howard. 

WELLER G. FRED, resident, h 188 Clark. 

Wells Elizabeth S., widow Rev. Daniel, bds. 414 Chemung. 

Welsh John, moulder, h Loder. 

Welsh Julia, widow James, h Loder. 

Welton Anna E., widow Lyman, h Chemung. 

Welton Warner, laborer, h Pine. 

West George P., retired, h 21 Orange. 

Westbrook Calvin T., drayman, h 7 Broad. 

Wheat Mark M., laborer, h Pine. 

Whitaker Henry, engineer, h 19 Lincoln. 

Whitaker Horace, street commissioner, h 435 Chemung. 

Whitaker Richard, mechanic and green-house, h 102 Howard. 

Whitaker William D., railroad conductor, h Providence n Pennsylvania ave. 

White Horton, emp. pipe works, h 10 Tioga. 

White James, bar-keeper, h Broad. 

White Jerome, laborer, h 430 Chemung. 

White Mary, widow Patrick h 354 Broad. 

Wickharo Joseph D., invalid, h 105 Howard. 

Wiesmer Sarah, widow George, resident, h loi Broad. 

WILCOX & BARROWS, (W. W. W. and A. H. B.) meat market, 271 
Broad. 

Wilcox George S., retired, h 40 Park ave. 

Wilcox H. M. & Co., (L. S. Bush) dry goods, 218 Broad. 

Wilcox Howard M., (H. M. Wilcox & Co.) h 25 Waverly. 

Wilcox Silas E., resident, h over 269 Broad. 

WILCOX WYATT W., (Wilcox & Barrows) h 40 Park ave. 

Wilkinson Margaret, widow George D., resident, h 19 Broad. 

WILLIAMS ADELBERT D., (Puflffe Williams) h Loder. 

Williams Addie, dressmaker, 20 Clark, h do. 

Williams Ann, resident, h 3 Tioga. 

Williams Daniel, painter, bds. 20 Clark. 

Williams John F., laborer, h 18 Chemung. 

Williams Mary E., widow Gabriel, h 20 Clark. 

SXARKX:'V &, 'WINTERS, fVIiolesale and Retail Drnselsts, Owego. 



BARTON— OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 29 



Williams Mastin L., retired, h 129 Clark. 

Wilson Alosco H., expressman, 24 Waverly. 

Wilson George W., locomotive engineer, h 349 Broad. 

Winnie William U., laborer, h 23 Glark. 

Witter George B., prop. Tioga Laundry, 113 Broad, h do. 

Woodburn James L., barber, Fulton, h do. 

Wolcott Ira M., resident, bds. over 259 Broad. 

Wolcott Maria, widow Silas, h 444 Chemung 

Wolcott Park, clerk, h Chemung. 

Wolcott Raymond, clerk, h 444 Chemung. 

Wolcott Tompkins S., bartender, h over 259 Broad. 

Wood Hiram C, R. R. signal tender, h no Chemung. 

Woodruff Emma C, widow Dr. Jacob D., resident, 7 Tioga. 

Woodruff James O. Rev., p^astor M. E. church, h 53 Waverly. 

Woodworth William H., laborer, h 26 Providence. 

Wright Daniel, lumberman, h 24 Clark. 

Wright Festus A., emp. J. T. Sawyer, h 451 Chemung. 

Young Henry H., tanner, h 196 Clark. 

Young John F., (Kinsnian & Young) h 6 Providence. 

Ziegler Benjamin F., cigar maker and tobacconist, Johnson, h 141 Fulton. 

Zeigler William R., conductor, h Hickory. 

Zoltowski Alexander, (VanVelsor & Co.) h 7 Chemung. 

Zoltowski Anthony, tailor, bds. 7 Chemung. 

OUTSIDE? ^WA.^VJE>iei^^y ^VIi:vIvA.OEJ. 

i^For explanations, etc., see page j, part second^ 

(Postoffice address is Barton, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Ackley Alexander W., (Lockwood) r 2, prop, saw-mill and farmer 1,400. 

Ackley Charles E., (Lockwood) r 16, sawyer and farmer. 

Ackley Francis, (Factoryville) r 47, laborer. 

Ackley Samuel, (Lockwood) farm laborer. 

Adell Fayette G., laborer. 

Akins J. Frank, (Lockwood) r 48, farmer 58. 

Akins Rebecca, (Lockwood) r 47, widow George, resident. 

Albright Adam, (North Barton) r 34, prop, threshing machine and farmer 76. 

Albright Hiram C, r 40, resident. 

Albright Isaac D., r 40, prop, steam thresher and farmer 120. 

Albright Joseph, r 27, farmer. 

Albright Joseph A., (North Barton) r 34. farmer. 

Albright Sarah, (Factoryville) r 42, widow Josiah, farm 50. 

Allen David, (Factoryville) r 65, farmer. 

ALLEN JOHN, (Waverly) r 60, prop. Cayuta Dairy milk route and farmer. 

ANDRE ABRAM T., (Lockwood) lumber dealer and contractor, h Main. 

Andre Isaac J., (Factoryville) laborer. 

Andre John, (Lockwood) r 29, apiarist 16 swarms. 

Andrew George, (Factoryville) laborer, h Owego, 

STARKEY & "WINTBKS, DrnsglstB, Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



30 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

Andrus Mary D., Lockwood) r i, widow Thomas, farm 44. 

Andrus Richard, (Lockwood) commissioner of highways and farmer 60. 

Arhart Henry, (Factoryville) brakeman, bds. Jackson House. 

Armstrong Joseph, retired, h Spencer. 

Atchison Thomas, r 38, farmer. 

Averil Miles D., (Waverly) r 65, farmer, leases of Horace Taylor 5. 

Baker Alonzo, (Lockwood) r 28, farmer 50. 

Ball Isaac, (Factoryville) laborer, h 533, Chemung. 

Ball William N., (Factoryville) resident, h 521 Chemung. 

Bandfield Ira, (Waverly) off r 65, farmer 90. 

Bandfield Ira E., (Waverly) off r 65, farmer with his father Ira. 

Barden Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 

Barden Edward, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 

Barden Ira, (Halsey Valley) r g, laborer. 

Barden Simon, (Halsey Valley) r 23, farmer. 

Barden Zalmon, r 39, farmer 45. 

Barker Abigail, (Factoryville) widow John, resident. Main. 

Barnes Christopher, (North Barton) r 17, farmer. 

BARNUM ELI, (North Barton) r 4, farmer 114. 

Barr John C, Jr., (Waverly) carpenter, h Chemung. 

Barton Tip, r 53, laborer. 

Bartron Albin, r 53, watchman. ; 

Bartron Frank, r 54, farmer with his father Joseph. 

BARTRON -JACOB, r 54, farmer with his father Joseph. 

Bartron Fernando, r 53, laborer. 

Bartron Joseph, r 5 4, farmer 80. ' 

Beams Marvin, r 41, farmer. 

Beers Lyman, (Factoryville) laborer, h Charles. 

Bellis William, (Factoryville) emp. Thatcher's mattress shop, h Orchard. 

Bellis Marietta, (North Barton) r 35, widow Charles, resident. 

Bellis Philip, (North Barton) r 35, farmer. 

Bennett Emma, (Factoryville) widow David, resident, h Owego. 

Bennett Lou, (Factoryville) cook, bds. Owego. 

Bensley DeWitt C, justice of the peace and pension attorney, Spencer, h do. 

BENSLEY ELLIOTT L., off r 55, farmer 200. 

Bensley John H., teacher, bds. Spencer. 

Bensley Lucina P., r 55, widow Daniel, resident. 

Bensley William, poormaster, h Spencer. 

Bensley William H., R. R. section hand, bds. Spencer. 

Bentley George, off r 39, peddler. 

BESEMER DANIEL V., (North Barton) r 18, apiarist 60 swarms and 

farmer 310. 
Besemer George D., (North Barton) r 18, farmer. 
Besemer James, (Lockwood) r 32, farmer 50. 
BINGHAM BROTHERS, (Lockwood) (G. W. & E. J. B.) flour and feed, 

saw, lath and planing-mill, and general merchandise. 
BINGHAM EDMUND J., (Lockwood) (Bingham Bros.) h Main. . 
BINGHAM GEORGE W., (Bingham Bros.) (Lockwood) h Main. 
Bingham John, (Lockwood) r i, farmer 27. 
BOGART GEORGE W., r 40, farmer 80. 
Began G. Fred, r 40, farmer with his father George W. 
Bogart James, (Waverly) r 60, farmer 47. 
Bogart John S., (Waverly) prop, saw-mill and farmer 40. 



aAKTUJN UUTHIUE WAVERLY. 3 I 



Bogart Joseph V., (Reniff) r i, farmer 124. 

Bogart Lawrence, (Factory ville)r 60, farmer. 

Bogart Nathaniel V., (Waverly) r 47, farmer 130. 

BOGART PETER V., (Lockwood) lumbering and farmer 65, h Main. 

Bogart Williamj r 41, farmer. 

Bowman Catharine, (Waverly) r 62, widow Absalom, resident. 

Bowman Emmet, (Waverly) r 62, farmer 65, and leases of Catharine 

Bowman 60, and on shares with Mrs. La Mont 15. 
Boyce Frank, (Factoryville) conductor, h Ithaca. 
Boyce Genevieve, (Factoryville) boarding-house, Ithaca. 
Boyce Lyman, (Halsey Valley) r 8, blacksmith. 
Brant Mary B., (Waverly) widow Luke S., resident, h Orchard. 
Brewster Harvey E., (Factoryville) r 69, farm laborer. 
Brewster Henry C, (Factoryville) r 69, farm laborer. 
Brewster John E., (North Barton) r 19, farmer 200. 
Brink Albert J., (Factoryville) r 64, farmer. 
Brink Charles, (Waverlv) r 59, farmer, leases of Jacob Brink 8o» 
BROCK GEORGE D.', (Lockwood) (A. V. C. Vail & Co.) postmaster, h 

Main. 
BROOKS AUGUSTUS, (Lockwood) prop, turning, scroll-sawing and wagon 

shop, contractor and builder, and manuf. church seats. 
Brown Avery, (North Barton) r 1 1, farmer. 
Brown Charles, (Lockwood) r 2, farmer 50. 
Brown Ezra, (Waverly) r 47, farmer 150. 
Brown Francis, (North Barton) r 19, farmer 120. 
Brown George, (Halsey Valley) r 23, farmer. 

Brown Marshall, (North Barton) r 19, farmer, with his father Francis. 
Brown Shubel C, (North Barton) r 4, farmer 100. 

Bruster Ainslee, (Lockwood) off r 2, farmer 175. 
Bruster Daniel, (North Barton) r 19, farmer 100. 

Bruster El wood, (North Barton) r 17, farmer. 

Bruster Nathaniel M., (North Barton) r 17, farmer, on shares with O. M. 
Bruster 150. 

Bruster Oliver M,, (Waverly) r 49, farmer 25. > 

BUCK LYMAN, (Waverly) r 65, school-trustee, prop. Buck's farm, dairy 
milk route, and farmer 100. 

Bunce Louisa, (Factoryville) widow John, resident, bds. Main. 

Bunnell Henry, (Waverly) r 48^, farmer 145. 

BURKE OSCAR F., (Waverly) r 60, carpenter, and farmer 6. 

Burt Israel, (Waverly) retired, bds. Orchard. 

Callahan Fanny, (Factoryville) widow John, resident. 

Campbell Emerson, (Waverly) r 62^, farmer, leases of John Murray 100. 

Canfield Amos, (Waverly) r 62, farmer 150. 

CANFIELD EZRA, (Lockwood) r 46, physician and surgeon. ' 

Carey Benjamin, (Waverly) teamster, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Carey Clarissa J., widow David N., resident. 

Carey Irving R., (Factoryville) laborer, h Chemung. 

Carey John, R. R. section foreman, h Spencer. 

Carey Samuel, r 36 farmer. 

Carlisle John, (Halsey Valley) r 22, laborer. 

Cary Ezra, r 66, farmer 145. 

Cary Leonard, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 

Cary William E., (Wright & Cary) h Spencer. 



32 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

Case Isaac, (Factoryville) resident, h Owego. 

Cashaday Horace, (Halsey Valley) r 12, farmer. 

Casterline Coe, (Factoryville) carpenter, h Owego. 

Cater William, (Waverly) laborer, h Owego. 

CAYUTA CREAMERY, (Factoryville) (Schuyler & Harding, props.) near 
depot. 

Central House, (Factoryville) F. D. Tooker, prop.. Main cor. Ithaca. 

Cheney Armenia, (Waverly) r 59, widow John, resident. 

Church Franklin L., (Lockwood) r-46, apiarist 23 swarms, and farmer, leases 
of J. C. Lyons 500. 

Church Walsteen A., (Lockwood) farmer with his father Franklin L. 

Clark Mary, (Lockwood) r 2, farm 50. 

Clarke Harmon, r 5 4 J, school trustee, and farmer 75. 

Clawson Harmon, r 40, farmer, leases of Jeremiah Bogart 80. 

Clearwater Amanda, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Stephen, resident. 

Clock Clarence E., (Factoryville) postmaster and station agent, h Ithaca. 

COLEMAN CHARLES H., (Lockwood) r i, prop, turning, scroll-sawing, 
wagon and blacksmith shop, also dealer in wagons, sleighs and agri- 
cultural implements. 

Coleman Eliza J., widow William D., resident. 

Coleman George, (Waverly) r 43, fanner 50. 

Coleman Jedediah D., live stock dealer, h Main. 

Coleman John B., postmaster and bridge carpenter. Main, h do. 

Coleman Joshua, r 54^, farmer 45. 

Coleman Sadie L., deputy postmaster, bds. Main. 

Collins Cornelius, (Lockwood) r 31, farmer 100. 

Collins Emeline, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Samuel, resident. 

Combs Clarence, (Factoryville) r 68, farm laborer. 

Combs George, (Factoryville) farm laborer, h Chemung. 

Conklin Emmet, (Factoryville) r 67, laborer. 

Conklin Julia, (Waverly) widow Timothy, laundress, h Main. 

Cook Daniel, r 55, physician and surgeon. 

Cooley Fred L., (North Barton) r 17, farmer. 

Cooley Harvey L., (Factoryville) retired, h Main. 

Cooley Hattie J., (North Barton) r 17, dressmaker. 

Cooley Robert, (Lockwood) r 32, farmer. 

Cooley Robert R., (North Barton) r 17, farmer 50. 

Corey Leonel C, (Factoryville) telegraph operator, h Ithaca. 

Corey William, (Factoryville) resident, h Ithaca. 

Cornell Alanson, stationery engineer, h Spencer. 

Cornell Daniel B., clerk, bds. Main. 

Cornell William, general merchant, and prop, of feed and saw-mill. Main, h do. 

Cornish Marvin J., (Factoryville) laborer, h Ithaca. 

Cortright Abram, (North Barton) r 11, farmer. 

Courtwright David J., (Factoryville) r 42, farmer on shares with M. Sawyer. 

Courtwright Martin V. E., carpenter and joiner, h Spencer. 

Cowles Adelbert C, (Waverly) r 60, small fruit grower. 

Cowles Caleb, (Waverly) r 60, orchard 150 trees and small fruit grower. 

Crandall Alfonzo, (Halsey Valley) r 5, farmer. 

Crans Ard F., (Factoryville) r 60, blacksmith. ' 

Crans Eliza, (Lockwood) r i, resident. 

CRANS FRANK, (Lockwood) r i, apiarist 56 swarms, and farmer. 

Crisfield Ellsworth E., (North Barton) r 4, farmer with his father John. 



BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 33 

Crisfield George B., (North Barton) r 15, farmer, on shares with C. C. 
Hedges 145. 

Crisfield John, (North Barton) r 4, farmer 180. 

Cronin Bartholomew, (Lockwood) R. R. section foreman, bds. Gilbert House. 

Cronin Michael, (Factoryville) R. R. section foreman, h Charles. 

Crotsley George, r 41, farmer, with his father Lewis. 

Crotsley Lewis, r 41, farmer 200. 

Cumber Solomon, r 41, farmer. 

Curran David, (Waverly) r 49J, farmer. 

Curran Floyd, (Waverly) r 62, clerk. 

Curran Horace H.. (Waverly) r 60, mason. 

Curran John J., (Waverly) r 60, mason. 

Curtis Samuel, (Factoryville) conductor, h near depot. 

Dalton James, laborer, h Spencer. 

Damon Edward F., (Waverly) r 6 2 J, farmer. 

Daniels Mary E., (Waverly"* widow Javan, tailoress, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Davenport Albert, (North Barton) r 18, farmer. 

Davenport Alonzo, farm laborer, h Main. 

Davenport Andrew, laborer, h Railroad. 

Davenport Charles A., laborer, h Railroad. 

Davenport David, r 39, retired. 

Davenport George, r 39, farmer 73. 

Davenport Leslie, (Factoryville) emp. Sayre Butter Package Co., bds. Che- 
mung. 

Davenport Miles, r,39, carpenter. 

DAVIS MARY M. Miss, (Lockwood) r 46, resident. 

DECKER TANNERY, Abram I. Decker, prop.. Main, E. Waverly. 

Dewandler Henry, (Waverly) r 60, farm laborer. 

Dewey George, (Lockwood) r 31, farm laborer. 

DeWitt William M., (Factoryville) r 60, teaming. 

Deyo Isaac, Jr., (Factoryville) r 60, farm laborer. 

Dickerson Orson, r 34, farmer 80. 

Dillon Martin, (Reniff ) foreman Reniff mills. 

Dingman William E., (Waverly) laborer, h Chemung. 

Doane William B., (Waverly) r 62^, farmer, on shares wijh J. Murray 100. 

DoUason Frances H., (Factoryville) widow Austin A., dressmaker, Main. 

Doney Abner, (Lockwood) carpenter, h Church. 

Doty Asa, (Factoryville) r 18, farmer 55. 

Doud Augustus, (Waverly) retired, h Main. 

Doyle Jacob, r 40, farmer 102. 

Doyle John, r,4o, farmer 8. 

Drake Andrew J., off r 66, farmer 200. 

Drake Betsey, (Halsey Valley) r 23, farm 100. 

Drake Ezra, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 

Drake George C, (Waverly) r 62, carpenter. 

Drake James H.,. (Halsey Valley) r 23, farmer. 

Drake Jedediah, r 37, farmer. 

Drake Nathaniel, (Lockwood) laborer. 

Drake Susan, off r 66, widow Elsworth, resident. 

Draper Spencer J., (Factoryville) laborer, h Owego. 

Drogan John, (Factoryville) emp. Sayre freight house, h Charles. 

Dunn John, (Factoryville) laborer, h Main. 

Dunn John, Jr., .Factoryville) laborer, bds. Main. 

3 



34 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

Dunn Kate, (Factoryville) r 65, house-keeper. 

EATON AMBROSE C, (Factoryville) (D. H. E. & SON) h Main. 

EATON DAVID H., (Factoryville) (D. H. E. & Son) h Main. 

EATON D. H. & SON, (Factoryville) tin and hardware, manufrs. of 
Eaton's refrigerator butter packages. 

Edgarton Willis, (Lockwood) r 46, blacksmith. 

Edgcomb George G., (Factoryville) r 47, apiarist 30 swarms, and farmer 155. 

Edgcomb Gilbert, (Factoryville) r 60, farmer with his mother Lucinda. 

Edgcomb Lucinda, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Hobart, farm 140. 

Edgcomb Lucy, (Waverly) r 60, widow Gilbert, resident. 

Edwards Aaron, (Halsey Valley) r 9, farmer 45. 

Edwards George F., (Halsey Valley) r g, farmer. 

Ellas A. Clark, wagon-maker. Main, h do. 

Ellas Orrin, retired, h Main. 

Ellas Sarah Ann, resident, h Main. 

Elliott William B., (Factoryville) retired, h Chemung. 

Ellis Charles B., (Waverly) off r 49, farmer 100. 

ELLIS GILBERT S., (Waverly) r 64, commissioner of highways, auctioneer 
and farmer 35. 

Ellis Ira D., (Factoryville) r 64, farmer 44. 

Ellis Jesse, (Factoryville) r 59, farmer 87. 

Ellis John, (Factoryville) r 65, farmer. 

Ellis John, (Factoryville) painter, bds. Ithaca. 

Ellis Lewis B., (Waverly) r 49, farmer 77. 

EUis Sela, (Factoryville) r 60, farmer 135. 

Ellis Thaddeus W., (Factoryville) r 64, farmer 170. 

ElUs William T., (Factoryville) r 65, farmer. 

Ellison John, (Lockwood) r 28, farmer 50. 

Ellison Samuel W., (Lockwood) r 29, farmer 118. 

Ellison Susan, (Lockwood). r 79, widow Samuel, resident. 

Ellison William B., (North Barton) r 16, farmer 62. 

Elson Julius, r 40, farmer. 

Elwell Orlando, (Reniff) r i, sawyer and carpenter. 

Evans Ziba, Rev., (Lockwood) pastor M. E. church, h Main cor. Church. 

Evarts Andrew J., (Factoryville) general merchant, Main, h do. 

Evelin Henry, (North Barton) r 4, farmer, leases of Dr. Vosburgh. 

Evelyn Christopher, (North Barton) r 11, farmer 36. 

Evenden Eliza, (North Barton) r 2, widow Robert, farm 50. 

Evenden WilUam, (North Barton) r 2, farmer. 

Evens Richard E., (Waverly) laborer, h Orchard. 

Fiester Jacob, retired farmer, h Main. 

Filkins CorneHus, (Factoryville) carpenter, h near depot. 

Finch Amasa, (Factoryville) wagon and sleigh manuf.. Main, h do. 

Finch Cynthia, (Factoryville) resident, bds. Main. 

Finch Wilbur F., (Factor-yville) postal clerk, h Main. 

Fisher Douglass T., (Halsey Valley) r 2t, farmer. 

Fisk Willis J.. (Lockwood) r 1, watch repairer and miller. 

FLECKENSTINE JACOB W., (Waverly) r 60, prop. Iron Bridge stone- 
quarry. 

Fleming Oscar, (Lockwood) r 45, farmer, leases of Mrs. S. Davis 96. 

Follett Harriet, (Lockwood) r 45, widow Cyrus, farm 120. 

Foote Gilbert E., (Waverly) off r 46, assessor and farmer 150. 

Forbes Henry S., (Waverly) r 64, farmer on shares with G. B. Pennell loos. 



BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 35, 



Forbes Hester, (Waverly) r 64, widow Archibald, resident. 

Forman Edward M., r 55, farmer 100. 

Forraan Miles, prop. Temperance Hotel, Main. 

Forsyth Edward, (Halsey Valley) r 8, farmer. 

Forsyth Frederick, (Halsey Valley) r 8, farmer. 

Foster Eli, (Waverly) r 47, farmer 50. 

Foster Katie, (Halsey Valley) r 9, widow Daniel, resident. 

Foster ShalorS., (Waverly) r 47, farmer with his father Eli. 

Frisbie Charles F., (North Barton) r 14, farmer. 

Frisbie Frederick, (Halsey Valley) r 8, farmer. 

Frisbie William R., (North Barton) r 14, farmer 250. 

Fuller Celinda, (Factoryville) widow Richard, resident, h Charles. 

Fuller F. Adelbert, (Factoryville) laborer, h Charles. 

Furman William A., (Reniff) r 1, farmer 35. 

Garrison William R., (.Factoryville) brakeman, h Charles. 

Gee William, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer. 

Genung Alva E., (Waverly) r 18, farmer 70. 

Genung Harvey, (North Barton) r 27, farmer. 

Genung Lydia L., (Waverly) r 18, widow Nathaniel, farm 80. 

Genung William W., (Waverly) r 18, farmer. 

Georgia George, (Lockwood) r 29, farmer. 

Gilbert House, (Lockwood) Mrs. Eva J. Gilbert, prop., Main, opp. depot, 

Gilbert Laton, (Lockwood) Gilbert House, Main. 

Giles Joseph W., (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 

Gillan Benjamin R., (Factoryville) blacksmith, h Main. 

Gillan William, (Factoryville) fireman, h Main. 

Gillett Albert, (Reniff) r i, erap. Reniff mills. 

GILLETT & DECKER CREAMERY CO., (Reniff) W. E. Gillett, and 
A. I. Decker, props., near R. R. 

Gillett Morris H., (Reniff) r i, head sawyer Reniff mills. 

Gillett Nathan R., (Reniff) retired. 

GILLETT WILLIS E., (Reniff) (Gillett & Decker Co.) postmaster, gen- 
eral merchant, prop. Reniff Mills, and farmer 147, and in Chemung 
county 372, and in Tennessee 150. 

Giltner Dexter E., (Waverly) carpenter, h Ithaca. 

Giltner Ezra A., r 39, farmer 175. 

Giltner Francis, r 39, farmer. 

Giltner Wesley, r 541^, farmer 30. 

Giltner William, off r 38, farmer. 

Golden George M., (Lockwood) r 31, farmer 180. 

-Golden Isaac, (North Barton) r 33, farmer.' 

Goodwin Mrs., (Halsey Valley) r g, widow Floyd, resident. 

Gorton George, (North Barton) r 19, farmer 30. 

Gorton Nathan, r 54, farmer 10. 

Gould John, (Halsey Valley) r 23, farmed. 

Grafft George H., (Waverly) justice of the peace, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Gregory Franklin, (Lockwood) r 2, farmer, on shares with Dr. HoUenback 175. 

Green Edward L., (Factoryville) express messenger, h Charles. 

Green William H., r 54, farmer, on shares with H. A. HoUenback 224. 

Greer Jane A., (Factoryville) widow Thomas, resident, h Ithaca. 

Gridley Charles E., (Factoryville) (T. E. Gridley & Son) h Main. 

Gridley T. E. & Son, (C. E. G.) (Factoryville) general store, Mam. 

Gridley Thomas E,, (Factoryville) (T. E. Gridley & Son) h Main. 



36 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

HAG ADORN DEWITT C, (Lockwood) station and express agent, and 
telegraph operator, also dealer in coal, lime and cement, fence posts 
and R. R. ties. 
Haley Michael, (Factoryville) off r 60, laborer. 

Hallett John; (Waverly) r 62, painter. 
Hallett William, (Waverly) off r 62, retired. 

Hamilton Simeon, (Waverly) off r 60, carpenter. 

Hammond Gordon S., (Waverly) r 49, farmer, on shares with J. C. Lyons 160. 

Hanford Clark, (Factoryville) apiarist and shoemaker. 

Hanford Julia A., (Factoryville) widow Noah, resident, bds. Main. 

HANFORD MAURICE F., (Waverly) (Hanford & Lord) h Main, E. 
Waverlv. 

HANNA CHARLES F., (Factoryville) r 66, prop, saw-mill, and farmer 60. 

Hanna George E., (Factoryville) brakeman, bds. Main. 

Hanna George I., (Waverly) farmer 130. 

Hanna G. Quigg, (Factoryville) resident, h Main. 

Hanna Ira, r 55, farmer 100. 

Hanna Lorentes J., (Factoryville) butcher, h Main. 

flanna Selah S., (Factoryville) farmer. 

Hardenstine John L., (Waverly) painter. 

Harding Amos, (Waverly) r 49, painter. 

Harding Benjamin J., (Factoryville) r 59, farmer 54. 

HARDING CHARLES E., (Factoryville) carpenter, h Ithaca. 

Harding Charles H., (Waverly) r 59, farmer, leases of Ira Harding estate 80. 

Harding Cornelius, (Waverly) r 48, farmer. 

Harding Cynthia S., (Waverly) r 59, widow Ira, resident. 

Harding Elliot, (Waverly) r 59, farmer. 

HARDING FRANK W., r 52, farmer 90. 

HARDING HORACE T., (Factoryville) (Schuyler & Harding) r 60, farmer 
23J, and in Chemung county 150. 

Harding James B., (Waverly) r 59, teacher, and farmer 54. 

Harding James N., (Factoryville) retired, bds. Ithaca. 

Harding James O., (Factoryville) emp. Sayre Butter Package Company, 
bds, Ithaca. 

Harding Nancy H., r 52, widow John, resident. 

Harding Samuel T., teacher, bds. Spencer. 

Harding William, (Factoryville) (Schuyler & Harding) h Owego. 

Harford A. Jackson, (Reniff) off r i, farmer. 

Harford George B., (Factoryville) teaming, h Main. 

Harford Lewis, (Reniff) off r i, farmer. 

HARFORD TUNIS I., (RenifP) r i, school trustee and farmer 60, a mem- 
ber of the.i6ist Regt., N. Y. Vols. 

Harris George V., (Factoryville) carpenter, h Main. 

Hart Edward C, (Waverly) r 60, emp. Novelty Works. 

Hazen Fred, r 41, farm laborer. 

Hedges Charles C, (North Barton) r rs, farmer 145. 

Hedges Christopher, (VanEttenville, Chem. Co.) r i, lumberman and farmer. 

Hedges Laura M., (Lockwood) widow John B., resident. 

Hess Adelbert, (Halsey Valley) r 1 2, farmer. 

Hess Fred, (Halsey Valley) r 20, farmer. 

Hess George, (Halsey Valley) r 7, farmer. 

Hess Jacob, (Palsey Valley) r 20, farmer 60. 

Hess Sylvester N., (North Barton) r 11, farmer. 



BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY.. 37- 

Hill Ira G., (Factoryville) r 60, retired. 

HILL JOHN G., (Factoryville) r 68, farmer 78. 

Hill Albert L.. (Factoryville) laborer, bds. Ithaca. 

Hills Charles M., (Factoryville) book-agent, bds. Ithaca. 

HoUenback Harry A., r 54, farmer 224. 

HoUenback John W., traveling salesman, h Spencer. 

HoUenback M. Hunter, retired, h Spencer. 

Holt Charles B., r 53, apiarist 40 swarms, and farmer 500. 

Holt Herbert, (Halsey Valley) r 5, farmer 100. 

Holt Herman B., r 53, farnier. 

Hooker Nelson, (North Barton) r 27, farmer, leases of George Besemer. 

Hoover Martin, (Factoryville) r 65, laborer. 

Hoover William, r 41, prop, steam thresher, and farmer. 

Hopkins Henry, school trustee, and farmer 48. 

Hopkins John Q., r 68, farmer, on shares with S. Hanna 100. 

Hopkins Stephen, (Waverly) r 62, retired. 

Hopkins Stephen, Jr., (Waverly) r 62, manager Electric Light Oto. 

Horton Beverly P., farmer 25. 

Howe John W.. (Waverly) off r 49, farmer, on shares with C. B. Ellis 100. 

Hoyt Edmund H., (North Barton) r 14, postmaster, and farmer 60. 

Hoyt Joseph N., (Waverly) r 60, milk dealer. 

Hoyt Sylvanus H., (North Barton) r 11 cor. 14, farmer 50. 

Hubbell Cassius M., (North Barton) r 17, farmer, with his father Volney. 

Hubbell Melissa H., widow David C, resident, bds. Charles. 

Hubbell Volney, (North Barton) r 17, peach orchard 1,100 trees, and far- 
mer 105. 

Hulett John, (Factoryville) r 59, farmer 97. 

Hulett Milo, (Halsey Valley) r 9, retired. 

Hulett N. Tallmadge, (Factoryville) r 59, farmer with his father John. 

Hulett Theophilus, r 11, district clerk, and farmer 35. 

Hyatt Alanson (Lockwood) broom-maker, h Church. 

Ilette Lewis, (Factoryville) retired, h Main. 

Jackson Amos, (Factoryville) prop. Jackson House, Main. 

Jackson House, (Factoryville) A. Jackson, prop., Main. 

Jarvis Stephen, (Waverly) off r 65, farmer. 

Jennings Daniel, (Waverly) r 68, teaming. 

Jewell Levi, (Halsey Valley) r g, farmer. 

Johnson Arthur A., r 40, farmer on shares with C. B. Holt 200. 

Johnson Cyrus, (Factoryville) r 60, farmer 53. 

Johnson Edmund J., prop. Johnson House, Main. 

JOHNSON HERBERT L., (Factoryville) r 67, farmer, leases of T. W. 
Ellis 183. 

Johnson House, (E. J. Johnson, prop.) Main. 

Johnson Lucinda, (^Factoryville) r 60, widow Thomas F., resident. 

Johnson Philetus B., (Waverly) r 62^, farmer 50. 

Jones Benjamin S., (Waverly)_r 65, farmer for Mrs. Sophia Howard. 

Jones Edward, (Factoryville) laborer, h Main, 

Jones Eugene C, (Factoryville) laborer. 

Jones George, (Factoryville) off r 60, mason. 

Jones William N., (Factoryville) brakeman, h Main. 

Joyce F. Delphine, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Michael, resident. 

Kain Edward M., station agent, express agent and telegraph operator, also 
coal dealer, bds. Spencer cor. Main. 



38 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

Xane James F., blacksmith, bds. Main. 

Kaulback John H., (Waverly) leather finisher, bds. Main, E. Waverly. 

Xaulback John J., (Waverly) supt. Decker Tannery, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Keeler Thomas, (Waverly) r 49, farm laborer. 

Kelley Fred L., (Reniff ) r i, farmer with his father Lutheran. 

Kelley Lutheran, (Reniff) r i, apiarist 14 swarms, and farmer 130. 

Kellogg Joseph, (Lockwood) off r 47, resident. 

Kelsey Horace, Rev., r 37, (Bapt.) retired. 

Ketcham Avery, (Lockwood) r 33, farmer. 

Ketchem Ida, widow Lewis, resident. 

Xing Clayton G., (Waverly) r 47, farmer. 

King Henry, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer. 

King John W., r 52, farmer on shares with A. J. Van Atta 103. 

King Le Grand, (Lockwood) r 45, farmer 300. 

King Salmon D., r 38, farmer 200. 

King Sarah M., (Waverly) r 47, widow George, resident. 

King Sheffield, (Lockwood) r 15, farmer. 

King Warren J., (Lockwood) r 16, farmer 80. 

Kingsworth Leonard, (North Barton) r 32, farmer 150. 

Kinney John, off r 39, farmer 8. 

Kirk Frederick H., (Factoryville) r 60, quarryman. 

Kishpaugh George, (North Barton) r 16, farm laborer. 

Kishpaugh Jonas, (Halsey Valley) r 26, farmer 100. 

Kline Mazie A., (Waverly) r 62J teacher. 

Kline Wesley B., (Waverly) r 62-J-, farmer, leases of J. Beuly 170. 

Knapp Azel, (Waverly) r 59, farmer 150. 

Knapp Jerome B., (Waverly) r 59, farmer. 

Kreamer Lot S., (Waverly) conductor, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Lambert John L., (North Barton) r. 4, farmer. 

LA MONT MARY C, (Factoryville) widow Allen, farm 95. 

Lauderback George, r 39, farmer 30. 

Lauderback Henry, r 39, farmer 30. 

Laughlin Theodore, (Waverly) r 44, farmer on shares with C. Sawyer. 

Lawheed Joseph S., (Factoryville) r 47 tanner. 

Lawrence James C, (Factoryville) brakeman, h Charles. 

Lee Henry B., (Factoryville) r 49, farm laborer. 

Lee Ira H,, (Factoryville) r 48J, district clerk and farmer 131. 

Lee James, (North Barton) r 3, farmer. 

Leonard Charles, r 55, blacksmith. 

Lewis Harrison, (Waverly) r 59, farmer 53. 

Liddle Richard, (Factoryville) retired farmer, h Owego. 

LORD LOUIS F., (Hanford & Lord, Waverly) h Main, E. Waverly. 

Lott George W., (Van Ettenville, Chem. Co.) prop, saw-mill and farmer 500. 

Lott Live Oak, (Van Ettenville, Chem. Co.) r i, lumberman and farmer. 

Lubars Theodore H., (Waverly) stationary engineer, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Luce Chauncey, (North Barton) r 1 1, farmer. 

Luce John, (Waverly) resident, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Lynch Uriah, (Halsey Valley) r 6, farmer. 
' Lyon Alonzo, (Waverly) painter and paper-hanger, h Chemung. 

Lyons Henry, (Lockwood) r 46 retired farmer. 

Lyons John, (Lockwood) r t, farmer 300. 

Lyons Jonathan C, (Factoryville) retired farmer, h Ithaca. 

Lyons Nelson H., (Factoryville) farmer 35, h Ithaca. 

SXARKBV & TriNTX:RS, Wbolesale and Retail Druggists, Owego. 



BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 39 



Maloy I. Shepard, (Waverly) janitor High school, h Orchard. 

Manderville Benjamin F., (Waverly) r 60, enip. Sayre shops and farmer 28. 

Manning Betsey, (Waverly) widow Job, resident, bds. . Main. 

MANNING ELI D., (Halsey Valley) r 9, apiarist and farmer 46. 

Manning Fred B. , (Halsey Valley) r 9, feed and cidar-mill, and turning shop. 

Manning John, (Halsey Valley) r 9, farmer 50. 

Manning John, r 39, farmer 145. 

Manning Judson, (Halsey Valley) r 9 cooper. 

Manning Reuben C, (Waverly) farmer, h Main. 

Mansfield Charles S., r 40, farmer on shares with J. Doyle. 

Mapes Milton C, (Factoryville) blacksmith, Main, h do. 

Masterton Samuel, r4ij farmer. 

Masterson Urial, (Halsey Valley) r 19, farmer 15. 

McCarthy Florence, (Factoryville) conductor, h Ithaca. 

Mead Elizabeth, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Jacob W., resident. 

Mead George H., (Factoryville) r 60, farm laborer. 

Mead Judson, (Factoryville) r 60, farm laborer. 

Mead Wallace, (Waverly) r 60, laborer. 

Merrill A. Jackson, (Factoryville) r 59, farmer 40. 

Merrill Sutherland T., (Factoryville) r 59, farmer with his father A. Jackson. 

Metzker John W., (Factoryville) student, bds. Spring. 

Millage Jacob A., (Factoryville) laborer, h Ball. 

Millard Royal J., (Lockwood) teamster, h Main. 

Millen Alonzo P., r 55, farmer on shares with C. Sawyer 96. 

Miller Catharine E., (Lockwood) widow Gilbert M. L., resident, h Main. 

Miller Henry, R. R. section hand, bds. Johnson House. 

Miller James, (Factoryville) emp. Novelty Works, h Main. 

Miller John, (Factoryville) brakeman, bds. Main. 

Mills Adolphus, (Waverly) r 59, farmer. 

Mills William G., (Waverly) r 59, farmer 120. 

Monroe Charles, r 55, farmer. 

Morse Asa, (Lockwood) off r i, laborer. 

Murray William W., (Factoryville) blacksmith, h Main. 

Myers Peter, (Lockwood) r 32, farmer, leases of M. L. Williams. 

New John T., (Factoryville) farm laborer, h Charles. 

Newkirk Diantha (Factoryville) widow Ezra, resident, h Owego. 

Nichols Charles H., (Lockwood) farm laborer. 

Nichols Chauncey S., (North Barton) r 18, farmer 83. 

Nichols Harriet A., (North Barton) r 18, widow Robert T., resident. 

Nichols Harvey L., (Waverly) r 49, farm laborer. 

Northrup Isaac D., (Waverly) r 62, farmer, leases of J. Kennedy 160. 

Northrup WiUiam C, (Waverly) r 62, farmer with his father Isaac D. 

Osborn John, (Factoryville) stationary engineer, h Ithaca. 

Park Alvira, r 55, widow John, resident. 

Park Daniel, r 55, farmer 100. 

Park John J., r 55, farmer 65. 

Parker Charles P., (Factoryville) r 48J, carpenter, and farmer 30. 

Parks Joel, painter, h Spencer. 

Parry Chauncey, r 39, farmer 15. 

Partridge Sarah, (Factoryville) widow Abram, bds. Main. 

Peck Luther Rev., pastor M. E. church, h Spencer. 

Pembleton Charles, (Factoryville) r 69, farmer 124. 

Pennell Gershem B., (Factoryville) retired farmer. 

STARKET £ ■WINTEKS, Druggists. Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



40 BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

Peters Frederick J., (Waverly) clerk, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Peterson Charles, (Waverly) r 62^, farm laborer. 

Petty Nathan D., laborer, h Main, 

Phillips Nellie S., (Factoryville) widow Addison B., resident, h Main. 

Piatt Charles, (Factoryville) r 60, laborer. 

Pierce Mary A., (Factoryville) resident, bds. Main. 

Poole Frank, (Hals'ey Valley) r 9, blacksmith, and farmer 100. 

Poole George, (Halsey Valley) r 6, farmer. 

Porter Zeal W., (Factoryville) r 48J, farmer. 

Primrose James, r 55, laborer. 

Quick Jay, (Halsey Valley) off r u, farmer 50. 

Raymond Augusta, (Factoryville) r 67, resident. 

Raymond Isaac L., (Factoryville) r 67, farmer 500. 

Raymond Rebecca, (Factoryville) r 67, resident. 

Reed Eugene N., (North Barton) r 11, farmer. 

Rezeau Henry G., (Waverly) r 62^, horse trainer and farmer. 

Reeeau Joseph O., (Waverly) r 62^, farmer 60. 

Rhodes Isaac, (Factoryville) carpenter, h 517 Chemung. 

Richards Horace, (Wavedy) r 57, school trustee, and farmer 100. 

Rinker Frank, (Lockwood) r 29, farm laborer. 

Robinson Frederick, (Factoryville) emp. Novelty Works, bds. Owego. 

Robinson Leroy E., (Factoryville) teaming, h Owego. 

Rockwell Charles M., (Factoryville) laborer, h Chemung. 

Rolls Hosea H., (Waverly) r 64, farmer. 

Root Frank L., (Halsey Valley) r 5, farmer 31. 

Root Lester, (Halsey Valley) r 9, prop, bowling alley and pool-room. 

Root Ransom R., shoemaker, Main, h North. 

Ross Horace, (Lockwood) sawyer, bds. Main. 

Ross John B., (Lockwood) lumberman. 

Sabins Luther, (Factoryville) laborer, h Main. 

Sager James, (Waverly) r 43, farmer 37. 

Sager Marcus B., (Waverly) r 43, farmer 50. 

Sager Philander A., (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer. 

Sager Simon, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 

Salmon Franklin J., Rev., pastor Baptist church. 

Saunders Charlotte, (Factoryville) r 69, widow Nathan, farm 50. 

Saunders Mary W., (Factoryville) r 65, farm 83. 

Saunders Nancy J., (Factoryville) r 65, resident. 

Sawyer Moses E., (Factoryville) farmer, h Main. 

Sawyer William A., (Factoryville) emp. Sayre shops, h Main. 

SCHUYLER & HARDING, (Factoryville) props. Cayuta creamery, near 
depot. 

Schuyler Ann, (Waverly) r 34, widow Philip C, farm. 

Schuyler Arminda, (Lockwood) off r 47, resident. 

SCHUYLER FORT A., (Factoryville) (Schuyler & Harding) highway com- 
missioner, and farmer 300, h Main. 

Schuyler John, (Lockwood) r 48, farmer, leases of J. Bogart 40. 

Schuyler Norman, (Waverly) r 27^, farmer. 

Schuyler Speer, (Halsey Valley) r 19, farmer. 

Scott Mary, (Factoryville) r 65, widow Levi, house-keeper. 

Scutt Horace, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer. 

Seaman George, (Reniff) r i, laborer. 

Searles Cornelius, (Waverly) r 57, farmer 57. 



BARTON— OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 41: 



Searles J. Nicholas, (Factoi-yville) r 68, sawyer. 

Searles Truman, (Lockwood) farm laborer. 

Searles Emanuel, (Factoryville) r 18, farmer 60. 

Severn Lemuel, (North Barton) r 14, farmer 50. 

Shackelton John, farmer 350, and in Illinois 200. 

Shadrick Henry, (Halsey Valley) r 9, farmer. 

Shahan Patrick, (Waverly) R. R. section foreman, h Broad. 

Shahan Patrick, Jr., (Waverly) machinist, bds. Broad, E. Waverly. 

Sharp Frederick, retired, h Railroad. 

Shelp Mahala, (Factoryville) r 60, widow Freeman, farm 25. 

Shepard Joseph, (Factoryville) resident, bds. Main. 

Sherman James, (Waverly) r 64, mason. 

Sherman J. Gideon, (Factoryville) 152, farmer on shares with James Swart - 

wood 72. 
Sherman John H., (Waverly) r 64, mason. 
Sherman John S., (Factoryville) r 65, farmer, leases i6o. 
Sherman S. Melinda, (Waverly) r 64, widow James W., resident. 
Sherman Stephen, (Factoryville) r 52, retired. 
Shipman Harvey D., (Waverly) r 18, school trustee, and farmer too. 
SHIPMAN PERLIE E., (Waverly) r 4, dressmaker. 
Shipman Philip H., r 54, farmer 30. 

SHIPMAN RUFUS T., (Waverly) r 43, apiarist 20 swarms and farmer 50.. 
Shipman Shaler B., (North Barton) r 34, farmer 130. 
Shoemaker Aaron, r 41, farmer. 
Shoemaker Henry, r 35, farmer 60. 

Shoemaker Peggy A., (Factoryville) widow Daniel, resident, bds. Main. 
Shores Elizabeth Mrs., (Waverly) resident, bds. Orchard. 
Shorter Harriet, (Halsey Valley) r 22, widow Albert, resident. 
Simons Charlotte W,, (Waverly) r 47^ widow Thomas, resident. 
Skillings Giles, (Halsey Valley) r 9, carpenter. 
Skillings James, L., (Halsey Valley) r 9, laborer. 
SLITER JAMES M., (Waverly) r 49, farmer 128. Farm for sale. 
Sliter J. Watson, (Factoryville) laborer, h Orchard. 
Sliter Nicholas, (Factoryville) retired, bds. Orchard. 
Sliter Phoebe, Mrs. (Factoryville) resident, bds. Orchard. 
Sliter Warren, (Factoryville) painter, h Orchard. 
Slutzer Louis, (Factoryville) track hand, bds. Jackson House. 
Sly Jeffrey A., (Waverly) r 49, farmer 75. 
Smith Asa M., (Factoryville) brakeman, h Spring. 
Smith Charles B., (Waverly) r 64, retired. 
Smith Charles G., (Waverly) r 4g^, farmer. 
Smith Daniel, (Waverly) r 44, farmer. 

Smith Deborah A., (Factoryville) widow Joseph, resident, h Main. 
Smith Emily, (Halsey Valley) r 9, widow David. 
Smith Emmet W., (Waverly) r 60, emp. Novelty Works. 
Smith Freeman D., (Waverly) r 50, farmer 15. 
Smith George J., (Waverly) r 49!^, resident. 
Smith Hannah, (Factoryville) r 47, widow Jesse, resident. 
Smith Hester, (Lockwood) r 28. widow Charles, farm 50. 
SMITH JAMES H., (Factoryville) telegraph operator, bds. Spring. 
Smith John, Jr., (North Barton) r 17, farmer 82. 

Smith Lorenzo, (Waverly) r 49, farmer, leases of Mrs. Mary C. La Mont i2o>.. 
Smith Phoebe, (Waverly) r 50, widow Benjamin, resident. 



42 BARTON— OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 

SMITH RUSHTON, (Waverly) r 64, civil engineer and farmer 50. 
Smith William E., (Waverly) r 49^, farmer on shares with G. Graff 130. 
Solomon George, (Waverly) r 49, farmer 90. 

SOLOMON JOHN V., (Waverly) r 69, carpenter and farmer 15. 
Soper Will, (Lockwood) oiF r 48, farmer. 
Southwick Warren, (Halsey Valley) r 20, farmer. 

Spear Barney B., (Lockwood) r 46, farmer on shares with J. T. Sawyer 130. 
Spear Samuel (North Barton) r 14, farmer on shares with Shubel Brown 100. 
Squires Frederick S., (Factoryville) emp. Novelty Works, h Orchard. 
Squires James P., (Factoryville) r 60, farmer 50. 
Squires Miles E., (Factoryville) resident, h Orchard. 
Squires Molbrow H., (Waverly) farmer. 
Stalker Albert, (Factoryville) clerk h Main. 

Stanton Mary E., (Factoryville) widow Simon, laundress, h Main. 
Stebbins O. Harrison, (North Barton) r 17, farmer 50. 
Stebbins William H., (Factoryville) driver, h 545 Chemung. 
Stevens Allen, (Factoryville) blacksmith, h Main. 
Stevens Samuel, (Lockwood) r 46, groceries and meat-market. 
Stever James H., (Waverly) r 62, carpenter. 

Stever Jeremiah A., (Lockwood) r 46, head sawyer Bingham's mills. 
Stfeward Adam, (Lockwood) r 45, farmer 9, 
' Steward Catharine, r 39, widow William, resident. 
Steward Horace A., (Waverly) r 69, farmer. 
Stewart Augustus, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer. 
Stewart Edgar S., (Factoryville) r 69, emp. Novelty Works. 
Stewart Harriet, (Factoryville) widow George H., resident, bds. Main. 
Stewart Jane A., (Waverly) r 18, resident. 
Stewart Thomas E., (Factoryville) r 60, farm laborer. 
Struble John, (Waverly) r 48J, farmer. 
Stuart Cornelius C, (Lockwood) laborer. 
Stuart Will E., painter. Main, h do. 

Sutherland Edward J., (Factoryville) tinsmith, bds. Ithaca. 
Sutherland Thomas, (Factoryville) stationary engineer, h Ithaca. 
Swain Mary J., (Factoryville) r 60, widow Jacob, resident. 
Swarthout Charles B., (Factoryville) carpenter, h Chemung. 
Swartwood Darius E., r 41, emp. Sayre shops, and farmer 61. 
Swartwood Ezekiel, r 53, farmer 6. 
Swartwood James, r 53, retired. 
Swartwood John P., r 67, farmer 120 
Swartwood Mary Miss, r 53, resident. 
Swartwood Parthema Miss, r 53, resident.- 
Swartwood William, r 41, retired. 
Talcott Oscar, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 
Taylor Chester, (Halsey Valley) r 9, laborer. 
Taylor Daniel, (Halsey Valley) r 6 farmer. 
Taylor Edwin, (Halsey Valley) r 6, farmer. 
Taylor Elizabeth, (Halsey Valley) r 5, widow Eli, farm 100. 
Taylor George, (Halsey Valley) r 9, farmer 24. 
Taylor Orin, (Halsey Valley) r 6, farmer. 
Temperance Hotel, (M. Forman, prop.) Main. 
Terry William R., (Waverly) r 64, book agent. 
Thayer Mary E. Mrs., (Factoryville) r 59, resident. 
Thayer William, (Factoryville) r 65 farmer. 



BARTON — OUTSIDE WAVERLY. 43 



Thomas Aaron, (Lockwood) r 46, emp. Bingham's mills. 

Thomas Charles, (Factoryville) emp. Pipe Works, bds. Jackson House, 

Thomas George D.^ (Lockwood) r 46, fireman. 

THOMAS HALLOWAY W., (Waverly) insurance, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Thomas Lucy, (Factoryville) widow James, h Orchard. 

Thrall C. Adelbert, (Lockwood) r 2, school trustee and farmer 100. 

Thrall Sarah, (Waverly) r 49, widow Charles, resident. 

Tilbery Edgar, r 39, farmer 72. 

Tompkins Mary A., (Factoryville) widow Charles, dressmaker, h Ithaca. 

Tompkins Samuel W., r 54J, farmer on shares with Elizabeth Coleman's 

estate 160. 
Tooker Frederick D., (Factoryville) prop. Central House. 
Tozer Almerin, (Factoryville) resident, h Ithaca. 
Tozer Alonzo, (Waverly) r 60, farmer. 
Tozer Edward A., (Waverly) r 60, farmer 47. 
Tozer Harry H., (Waverly) r 60, farm laborer. 
Tozer Henry, (Waverly) r 60, farmer 100. 
Tozer James, (Lockwood) r i6, farmer. 
Tozer Mary A., (Lockwood) r 16, widow William, farm 40. 
Tubbs Irving D., (Lockwood) r 29, farmer on shares with A. Ackley 100. 
TurnbuU James, (Factoryville) moulder, bds. Central House. 
Tuthill James N., (Factoryville) r 69, farmer. 
Tuthill William L., (Waverly) r 62, farmer 150. 
VAIL A. V. C. & CO., (G. D. Brock) (Lockwood) saw and planing mill 

and general merchandise. Main. 
Vail A. V. C, (Lockwood) (A. V. C. Vail Sc Co.) farmer 350, residence in 

Waverly. 

VanAtta , (Factoryville) r 60, gardener. 

VanAtta Benjamin, farm laborer, h Spencer. 

VanAtta Fanny J., r 52, widow Peter, resident. 

VANATTA OSCAR H., r 52, master Tioga County Pomona Grange, 

district clerk, and farmer 75. 
VANBUREN EUGENE L., (Lockwood) r 46, farmer 75. 
VanBuren Lorenzo, (Lockwood) r i, farm laborer. 
VanCleft Wells W., (Waverly) r 62, laborer. 
VanDermark Frederick, (Factoryville) r 60, farmer on shares with William 

Shepard estate. 
VanEtten Alfred, (North Barton) r 4, farmer. 
VanEtten Elisha, (Halsey Valley) r 25, farmer. 
VanEtten Richard, (Halsey Valley) r 26, farmer. 
VanHorn Charles, (Waverly) r 57, farm laborer. 
VanLuvin Alison, (Halsey Valley) r 5, farmer 46. 
VanMarter F. Wesley, (Halsey Valley) r 12, farmer 65. 

VanRiper , (Factoryville) r 65, farmer on shares with Mary Saunders 80. 

VanTyle Arthur, (Lockwood) retired, bds. Main. 

VanVleet Theodore, (Halsey Valley) r 5, farmer. 

Varner John H., (Waverly) emp. freight yard, h Main, E. Waverly. 

Vasbinder Harrison, (Halsey Valley) r 10, farmer. 

Vasbinder James H., (Halsey Valley) r 9, resident. 

Vastbinder Lewis, (Halsey Valley) r 8, farmer. 

Vosburgh Everett, (Halsey Valley) r 9, farmer. 

Vosburgh Henry P., (Halsey Valley) r 9, physician and surgeon. 

Wakefield Martha M., (Factoryville) resident, bds. Ithaca. 



44 BARTON— OUTSIDE, WAVERLY. 

Walden John N., (Halsey Valley) r 12, farmer 50. 

Walden Leander, (Waverly) emp. Steam mill, h Orchard. 

Walden Theodore, ( Factory ville) r 69, farmer on shares with S. Ellis 135. 

Walden Thomas, (Waverly) r 49, farmer 25. 

Walker Edward H., (Waverly) farmer. 

Walker Emmet, (Waverly) r 62, farmer 170. 

WALKER LEANDER, (Waverly) r 62, grocery, Broad. 

Walker Loren A., (Waverly) r 60, apiarist 40 swarms, and farmer 33. 

Walker Richard, (Factory ville) off r 60, laborer. 

WALKER THADDEUS S., (Waverly) (T. S. Walker & Son) r 60. 

Warner John A., (Waverly) r 65, milk dealer. 

WASHBURN GEORGE H., (Factoryville) r 65, farmer. 

Watson John F., (Factoryville) resident, h Main. 

Weed Cornelius E., (Lockwood) r 32, farmer 72. 

Weed William F., (Lockwood) farmer with his father Cornelius E. 

Weller Erastus, (Factoryville) r 42, farmer. 

Weller William S., (Factoryville) r 60, brakeman. 

Wells O. Eugene, (RenifF) foreman creamery. 

Walton Eugene E., (Waverly) fireman, h Orchard. 

West Samuel, (Lockwood) r 45, retired. 

West Wilson, (RenifT) off r i, farmer 126. 

Westbrook Henry, (North Barton) r 17, farmer. 

Westfall Harry, (Factoryville) carpenter, h Main. 

Westfall John V., r 55, farmer 100. 

Wheeler Grant, r 34, farmer. 

Wheeler H. Samuel, retired, h Main. 

Wheeler Isaac R., r 66, farmer. 

Wheeler Nirum, (Factoryville) r 66, farm laborer. 

Wheeler Philip H., (North Barton) r 32, farmer 63. 

WHITAKER LEWIS, (Factoryville) r 59, farmer 102. 

Whitaker William H., (Waverly) resident, h Orchard. 

Whitmarsh Ira, Jr., r 39, R. R. section hand. 

Wilbur Dennison, (Halsey Valley) r 7, farmer. 

Wilbur Hiram, (Halsey Valley) r 6, farmer. 

Wilcox Lyman, (Factoryville) retired, h Ithaca. 

Wilkinson Charles S., (Waverly) r 65, school clerk, and farmer 175. 

Wilkinson C. Raymond, (Waverly) r 65, commercial traveler. 

Wilkinson Joseph G., (Waverly) r 68, retired. 

Williams Alanson C. (Reniff ) r r, farmer 60. 

Williams Justus A., (North Barton) r 28, farmer to. 

Williams Lucinda, (North Barton) r 17, widow Sylvester H., farm 46. 

Williams Mastin, (Lockwood) r 28, farmer 40. 

Williams Moses S., (Reniff) r i, farmer oh shares with Joseph Bogart. 

Williams Winton T., (Waverly) r 47, farmer 70. 

Willis Frank, (Lockwood) r 16, farm laborer. 

Willis William, r 39, farmer 150. 

Wood Eunice A., (Factoryville) widow Oliver P., resident, h Main. 

WOOD JAMES C, (Factoryville) general merchant, also deputy post-master^ 

Main, h do. 
Woodard Henry, (Waverly) off r 62, farmer, leases of James Benley 100. 
Worrick David A., (North Barton) r 17, farmer 50. 
Worster Simon, (Factoryville) emp. Novelty Works, h Owego. 

STARKEY dc WINTERS, Wbolesala and Retail Dragglsts, Owego. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. . 45 



"Wright & Gary, (C. E. W. and W. E. C.) general merchants, Main. 

Wright Charles E., (Wright & Gary) h Main. 

Wright Miaraa, (Factoryville) r 59, widow Sylvenus, farm 40. 

Yaple Amos S., r 39, carpenter. 

Taple Peter, r 57, farm laborer. 

Yates Emily, (Factoryville) widow Thomas, resident. 

Tates Jerome N., (Factoryville) mail carrier, bds. Main. 

Yates Thomas P., (Factoryville) lumberman and farmer. 



BERKSHIRE. 

{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second.) 

(Postoffice address is Berkshire, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Akins Garoline P., r 21, widow Stephen, farm 140. 

Akins Henry S., (Speedville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, saw and planing-mill, cheese- 
box factory, cider-mill, wood turner and manuf. potato crates. 
Akins John P., r 21, farmer, works for Caroline P., 140. 
Andrews Asa, r 3, farmer, leases of Walter Jewett 190. 
Bailey Isaac B., r 28, sawyer. 

Baker Clarence A., r 5, farmer, leases of Talcott Leonard 154. 
Baker George W., r 11^, farmer. 
-Ball Asa, r 24, farmer 150. 
Ball CaroUue, widow of Anson, h Main. 
Ball George P., produce buyer. 

JBall Hannah E., widow of Alvah M., resident, h Main. 
Ball John, prop, saw-mill and farmer 40. 
Ball Robert H., farmer 140, h Main. 
Ball Stephen L., farmer 88. 

JBallard James O., (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 39. 
Ballou Alden, off r 23, farmer. 
Ballou Nelson A., r 36, farmer 71. 
Ballou Reuben, off r 23, farmer 97. 
Bancroft William H., (Ketchumville) r 32, farmer 59. 
Barr George A., farmer 50, h Glen. 
Bates Otis L., r 10, farmer 75. 
Bates Spencer, r 10, farmer. 
Beebe Herman P., r 9, laborer. 
Beebe Philo E., r 9, farmer 75. 
-Bennett Lucius M., laborer, h Glen. 

Benton Charles W., r 17, manuf. of axe-helves, and farmer 45. 
Benton Thomas J., r 17, painter and farmer. 

BERKSHIRE FLOURING MILLS, Leet & Hollenbeck, proprs. 
BERKSHIRE HOUSE, (Ira Crawford, prop.) livery connected. 
Bidwell Elizabeth M., widow Hiram H., resident, h Main. 
Bidwell Roxey A., widow Samuel C, resident, h Main. 

-SXARKEY & ■WINTERS, properly fill OTail and Telephone Orders. 



46 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



BLACKMAN ABRAM, dealer in live stock, and farmer 160, h Main. 
Borthwick Joseph, (Jenksville) rig, farmer 8r. 
Boyer Stephen H., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer 400. 
BRAINARD CHARLES E., r 27 cor. 26, dealer in the Deering mower, 

reaper and binder, wheel rakes, spring tooth harrows, sulky and land 

plows, wagons and carriages, also agent for arctic creamery, and 

farmer 220. 
Briggs Thomas, r 38, laborer. 
Brookins Charles E., (Ketchumville) r 33, laborer. 

Brown Abraham, carpenter, and farmer with James Camming 50, h Main. 
Brown Edwin B., r 38, farmer. 
Brown Frances C, r 38, farm 80. 
Brown Myron, r 38, carpenter, and farmer 12. 
Brown Robert C , r 38, breeder of horses, and farmer 130. 
Brown Romeo W., r 38, laborer. 
BUFFINGTON CALVIN A., general blacksmith, manuf. of carriages, 

beam knives, mill-stone picks, etc., Railroad h Main. 
Bunnell Eddie E., r g, farmer 60. 
Bunnell Henry J., (Center Lisle) r 29, resident. 
Bunnell John G., (Center Lisle) r 2g, farmer 125. 
Bunnell Nancy A., r g, widow Charles A., farmer 63. 
Burgess Joseph, r 23, painter, and farmer 6. 
Bush Marcene, r 38, farmer 80, and leases of F. C. Brown 40. 
Bushnell William, (Wilson Creek) r 34, laborer. 
Bushnell William B., flour, feed, coal, salt, and fertilizers, Depot, and ir> 

Newark Valley, farm 50. 
Cady Gershom, (Ketchumville) r 31, laborer. 
Carmer Charles, off r 2g, farmer 25. 
Chappins Mark, Jr., r 21, farmer, leases of Mark Chappins, of Sheldrake, 

N. Y., 130. 
Church Elijah C, r 30, farmer 48. 
CHURCH ORRIS, r 29, stone mason, carpenter, and farmer g, served in 

Co. E 76th Regt., N. Y. Vols. 
Christler Willian*, (Wilson Creek) r 35, farmer. 
Clark Gershom W., (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 125. 
Clark Horatio, general merchant, and deputy post-master, Main, cor. Depot, 

h do. 
Clark Sanford H., r 36, apiarist, and farmer 70. 
Clark Silas H., r 36, laborer. 
Coats Charles, r 27, farmer 105. 
Coats Joseph, r 27, farmer 3. 
Cole James E., (Jenksville) r ig, farmer, leases of L. Maria Keeny, of 

Dryden, 227. 
Cole Leslie, r 11 J, laborer. 
Collins Ambrose H., farmer 15, h Main. 
COLLINS JUNIUS, wool and produce dealer, real estate agent for lands 

in Nebraska, also associate justice and justice of peace, h Main. 
Comstock George S., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, teacher. 
Cortright Henry, r 28, farmer 30. 
CORTRIGHT JOHN, (Maine, Broome Co.) farmer, leases of Henry Van- 

Tyle, of Maine, 66. 
Cortright William, r 14, laborer. 
Costillo John, r 6, leather roller. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Courtright Darius, (Wilson Creek) r 28, farmer 95. 

Crapo Richard, (Ketchumville) r 28, laborer. 

Crawford Eugene, farmer, leases of Ira Crawford, h Main. 

CRAWFORD IRA, prop, of Berkshire Hotel and livery, also farmer 370, 
and in Harford, Cortland Co., 50. 

Crawford Ira O., sawyer and carpenter, h Main. 

Crawford James H., carpenter, h East. 

Croft Harry, emp. hub factory, bds. Glen. 

Cross James O., merchant tailor, Main. 

CROSS LOUIS J., house and carriage painter, paper-hanging and decora- 
ting, also breeder of Clay horses ; breaking colts a specialty, h Mechanic. 

CROSS SARAH B., (wife of Louis J.) all kinds of upholstering, h Mechanic. 

CuUen Miles, r 6, emp. tannery. 

Cummings James, retired farmer, h Glen. 

Curtis A- v., widow Mark, h Main. 

DALE JOHN, r 38, farmer 38. 

Darbonnier Stephen, (Dewey & Darbonnier) h Elm. « 

DAVIDGE, HORTON & CO., (Mrs. E. Davidge, Lucien Horton and James 
Davidge) r 6, props. Berkshire tannery, and manufrs. of hemlock sole 
leather, also farmers 150. 

DAVIDGE JAMES, r 6, (Davidge, Horton & Co., and Davidge, Landfield 
& Co., of Newark Valley). 

Decker Gideon, r 11, resident. 

Dermody Michael, emp. tannery,, h Main. 

DEWEY & DARBONNIER, (Chas. J. D., and Stephen D.) dealers in dry- 
goods, groceries, hardware, boots and shoes, clothing, &c., also farmers 
12, Main. 

DEWEY CHARLES J., (Dewey & Darbonnier) also justice of peace, b 
Main. 

Dewey D wight W., teacher, bds. Main. 

Doney John J., r 30, laborer. 

Doney William H., r 30, farmer 48. 

Dorwin Charles H., r 6, book-keeper, and farmer 4. 

Eastman Charles, r 13, farmer. 

Eastman Leonard O., county school commissioner, and medical student, 
oflSce in Court House, Owego, and at residence in Berkshire. 

Eastman Nancy W., widow George W., resident, h Main. 

EASTMAN RALPH D., physician and surgeon, farm 132, h Main. 

Edwards Charles M., (Ketchumville) r 28, laborer. 

Edwards Merritt P., (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 50. 

Eldred M. F., r 6, laborer. 

ELDRIDGE EDWARD O., (E. O. E. & Co.) notary public, h Main. 

ELDRIDGE E. O. & CO., (Edward O. Eldridge and Mrs. Carohne John- 
son) dealers in dry goods, groceries, and general merchandise, Main. 

Eldridge Mary S., widow of Edward H., resident. 

Ellis William, teamster, h Railroad. 

Ellis William, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, laborer. 

Eston Elmer, (Ketchumville) r 31, farmer, leases of R. T. Gates, of North 
Lancing, 107. 

Evans Irving W., r 28, farmer 83. 

Evans John J., (Ketchumville) r 33, farmer, leases of Marion. Rich, of New- 
• ark Valley, 60. . 

Evans Mary H., (Jenksville) r 19 cor. 41, widow of Joel, farm 7. 



.48 ' TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



Evans William S., (Jenksville) r 19 cor. 41, farmer. 

Everett Henry C, r 9, farmer 145. 

Fitch Arthur, (Wilson Creek) oflf r 28, laborer. 

JFORD ARTHUR J., r 15 cor. 17, farmer 104. 

FORD GEORGE, r 22, carpenter, and farmer 55. 

FORD JOHN R., postmaster and farmer 171, h Elm. 

FORD MARCUS J., r 16, farmer 119 and leases of James Baird of Speeds- 
ville 200. 

Ford Sarah W., r 3, widow Lebbeus, resident. 

FORD WILLIAM W., r 3, dairy 10 cows, farmer 117. 

Foster Amos, r 11, farmer. 

Foster John L., r 11, farmer, leases of Ira Crawford 165. 

Freeland Lewis A., (Newark Valley) r 40, farmer iii;. 

-Gay Isaac W., physician and surgeon, farmer 90, h Main. 

Gilbert Marvin C, r 14, laborer. 

■Gilbert Marvin C, Jr., r 14, farmer 14. 

Goldstein Brothers, (Jacob & Samuel) clothing and gents' furnishing goods. 

■Gould Joel, (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 137. 

Griner John N., restaurant. Depot. 

HAIGHT EDITH J., art teacher, h Glen. 

Haight Mary, widow Samuel F., farm 25, h Glen. 

Hamilton Elliott, r 6, boarding-house. 

Hamilton Susanna, r 8, widow Charles, resident. 

Hart Arthur L., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, carpenter and farmer. 

Hart Colden N., (Wilson Creek) r 34, postmaster^ also dealer in cigars and 
tobacco. 

Hart Samuel L., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, prop, grist-mill, also carpen- 
ter and farmer 7. 

HART SARAH E., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, wife of Samuel L., cloth 
and carpet weaving. 

Hart Selim M., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, carpenter and cabinet maker. 

Hartwell Levi, r 29, farmer 50. 

Hartwell Willard R,, (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 105. 

Harvey Andrew J., (Wilson Creek) r 36, farmer 47. 

Harvey Martin V., (Wilson Creek) farmer 140. 

JHAY HENRY L., painter, h Railroad. 

Hay Van Rensselaer, r 11, farmer. 

Hayden John, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 17, farmer 78. 

HAYDEN PATSEY W., carpenter and builder, h. Glen. 

Higgins & Rounsevellj (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) (John H. & George B. R.) 
r 18, props. Speedsville creamery and cheese factory. 

Higgins John, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) (Higgins & Rounsevell) r 18, agri- 
cultural implements and farmer 75. 

Hill T. James, emp. Berkshire Hotel, Main. 

Hillsinger Charles, r 26, farmer 50. 

Hillsinger William, r 26, laborer. 

Hinds Robert, emp. tannery, h Main. ' 

Hitchcock Caroline, resident. Elm. 

HOLCOMB J. WALLACE, dealer in drugs, patent medicine, groceries, 
paints and oils, etc. 

^Holland Frank, r 9, farmer 30. 

Holland James J., (Wilson Creek) r 11, farmer 21. 

HOLLENBECK J. ERVING, (Leet & HoUenbeck). 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 49 

HORTON LUCIEN, (Davidge, Horton & Co., and Dayidge, Landfield 

& Co., of Newark Valley, also Sherwood & Horton) r 6. 
Hough Rev. Joel J., pastor of Congregational Church. 
Houghtaling Burt, carriage maker, millwright and wood turner, Mechanic 

bds. Main. 
HOUGHTALING WILLIAM M., wagon-maker and repairing, h Main. 
Houk Daniel, (Wilson Creek) r 35, shoemaker, apiarist and farmer 8. 
Rowland Fred E., r 24, laborer. 
Howland George E,, r 24, laborer, 
Howland Harper, resident, Main. 
Hubbard Howard M., r 20, carpenter and farmer, leases of J. R. Ford 112, 

Served in Co. B, 109th N. Y. State Vol. 
Humphrey Erastus E., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 19 cor. 17, wagon maker 

and farmer 10. 
HUTCHINSON ORRIN, (Wilson Creek) r 34, dairy 25 cows, farmer 190. 
Japhet Elijah, r 28, farmer 31. 
Japhet George W., r g, dairy 7 cows, and farmer 95. 
Japhet Gilbert L., r 9, farmer. 

JAPHET MILO G., prop, saw-mill and novelty works, also dealer in lum- 
ber, lath, shingles, etc., Railroad. 
JENKS NATHANIEL J., (Jenksville) r 42, dairy 20 cows, and farmer 157. 
Jewett Asahel, r 3,, dairy 15 cows, and farmer 220. 
JEWETT WALTER, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 3 cor. i, supervisor 12th 

term, dairy 20 cows, and farmer 420. 
JOHNSON CAROLINE, (E. O. Eldridge & Co.) widow Carlisle P., h Main. 
Johnson Edward, r 6, leather roller. 
Johnson Eugene F., r 6, fire, life and accident insurance, sugar orchard 300 

trees, and farmer 220. 
Johnson Frank H., retired, bds. Main. 
Johnson Frederick C, r 6, clerk. 
Johnson William C, (Ketchumville) r 28,laborer. 
jTidd John N., r 6, dealer in harnesses, carriages, sleighs and agricultural 

imp., also farmer 107. 
Keeny Willoughby L., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 17, farmer 120. 
Kenyon William H., (Wilson Creek) r 34, farmer 50 in Maine, Broome Co. 
Keyes Benjamin I., r 6, farmer, leases of George Royce. 
Keyser Henry, r 15, farmer 100, 
Kimball & Stannard, (Connecticut) (John F. K. and Lorenzo J. S.) r 35, 

stationary steam threshing machine, horse breeders, and farmers 197, 

and in Newark no. 
Kingsbery Henry, r 14, farmer 20. 
Lacy Thomas, r 11, farmer 62^. 
Lamb Lewis W., r 14, laborer. 
Lee Frank L., r 27, farmer. 
LEET & HOLLENBECK, (T. E. L. and J. E. H;) props. Berkshire 

Floufifig mills, and dealers in flour, meal, feed and bran, near Depot. 
LEET FRANK E. (Leet Sc HoUenbeck.) 
LEGG ERASMUS D., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, breeder of English 

hurdle race horses, and coach horses, Holstein cattle and Hampshire 

sheep, dairy 15 cows, and farmer 220, sugar orchard 1,000 trees. 
Legg George W., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer. 
Legg Layton J., (Jenksville) offr 41, farmer no. 
Legg Louis P., retired farmer, h Main. 



50 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 

Legg Reuben T., (Speedsville, Torap. Co.) r i8, carp, and cabinet maker. 

Leonard Charles Talcott, r 6, dairy 15 cows, and farmer 260., 

Leonard Eunice C, r 14, widow George F., resident, farm with Ransom i68t. 

Leonard Henry G., retired tanner, h Elm. 

LEONARD J. WALDO, farmer 180, h Elm. 

Leonard Ransom, r 14, farmer with Eunice C. 168. 

Lynch Albert C, farmer, h Main. 

Lynch Charles O., r 24, deputy sheriff. 

Lynch Eugene F., dealer in produce, and farmer 200. 

Lynch George W., clerk, h Main. . 

Lynch Theodore, dealer in beef and Uve stock, also farmer r65, h Main. 

Manning Alexander D., dealer in butter and eggs, h Main. 

Manning Arthur B.,r 24, farmer 10. 

Manning Charles S., r 24, farmer 140. 

Marshall George, r 3, laborer. 

Maynard George, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer, leases of John Cross^ 

of Speedsville go. 
MAYOR CHARLES, (Theodore & Son) r 38 cor. 39. 
MAYOR THEODORE & SON, (Thco & Charles) r 38 cor. 39, breeders 

and dealers in Holstein cattle, dairy 16 cows, and farmers 136, sugar or- 
chard 300. 
McCoy Oliver A., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co. ) r 18, carpenter. 
McMahon James, r 5, farmer 41. 
McMahon Patrick, r 5, jarmer 40. 

Meeks Edmund, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer 105. 
Merithew Edgar A., (Connecticut)r3S, farmer, leases of Norman A. Prentice 68.. 
Myre Frank, r 6, laborer. 

Nicholson Charles, r 36, farmer, leases of Robert E. Waldo to6. 
Noiton Benjamin, (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 50. 

Northrup Frank L., (Speedsville, Torap. Co.) r 18, carpenter and painter. 
Northrup George W., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, retired physician. 
Oaks Jerome, (Ketchumville) r 28, agt. mowers and reapers, and farmer 136. 
Oliver Peter, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) rig, farmer. 
Olney Marvin M., emp. hub factory, served in Co. E. 76th N. Y. Vols., and* 

Co. F. sth N. Y. Cavalry, h Main. 
Owen Jay, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.)(M. A. & Bros.) r 18. 
Owen M. A. & Brothers, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) (Mc A. and Jay) r 18^ 

manuf tubs, firkins and barrels. 
Owen Mc A., (Speedsville, Torap. Co.) (M. A. & Bro.)r i8. 
Orton James, r 30, farmer 38. 
Overacker John M., r 3, laborer. 
Parke Anson, (Jenksville) r 42, laborer. 
Palmer Robert, r 6, laborer. 

Parsons George, r 26, dairy 50 cows, and farmer 750. 
Parsons Jemima, widow Chauncey, resident, h Glen. 
Parsons William C, (Ketchumville) r 33, farmer, leases of W. H. Jackson of 

Newark Valley 1 40. 
PATCH EVELINE L., r- 39, widow William J., administratrix of estate of 

WiUiam J., farm 230, and in Richford 210. 
PATCH HENRY W., r 39, dealer in horses,'and farmer, works the estate 

of William J. Patch 230, dairy 14 cows, sugar orchard 200, wool grower 

35 head. 

STARKEY & IVINTERS, Wbolesale and Retail Drngglsts, Owego. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 5 1 

Patch Robert C, telegraph operator, bds. Main. 

Payne Charles H., laborer, h Railroad. 

Payne Frederick H., r 24, postal clerk, and farmer 100. 

Payne Henry A., carpenter, and farmer 250, h Main. 

Phillips Elias M., r 38, farmer, leases of J. Watrous, of Cortland, 140. 

PhiUips Sophia L., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, widow of Asa E., resident. 

Pierce John, (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 30. 

Pierce Sylvester, (Ketchumville) r 28, farmer 80. 

Pittsley Clarence A., r 14, laborer. 

Pittsley Oscar, r 26, laborer. 

Pittsley Sewel, r 14, laborer. 

POLLEY HIRAM, manuf. and dealer in harnesses, whips, robes and blankets,. 

Main, h do. 
PRATT MARSHALL D., carriage-maker, veterinary surgeon, and cons- 
stable, h West. 
Prentice Austin H., (Connecticut) r 32, dairy 14 cows, and farmer 47 in New- 
ark Valley, and leases of George Walter 92. 

Prentice Irving B., (Newark Valley) r 40, farmer 97. 

PRENTICE NORMAN A., dealer in fresh and salt meats, fish, oysters, 

clams, poultry and veal calves, also farmer 68, Main, h do. 
Prentice Will E., (Newark Valley) r 40, farmer 112. 

Preston Jay R., (Jenksville) r 41, farmer, leases of Abram Blackman. 

Quinliran Edward, r 6, emp. tannery. 

Rightmire Elizabeth, widow William H., farm 30, h Glen. 

Rightmire Nathan, r 3, farmer 140. 

Rightmire Squire, retired carpenter, h Glen. 

Rightmire William P., r 6, foreman tannery. 

Roberts WiUiam D., r 7, farmer, leases of E. R. Adams, of Nanticoke, 200, 

Robinson Frank G., r 3, farmer with Newell 180, dairy 19 cows. 

Robinson Newell, r 3, farmer with Frank G. 180, dairy 19 cows. 

ROCKEFELLER CHARLES H., barber and hair-dresser, livery stable: 
and constable. Main. 

Rockwell Frank, r 15, farmer, leases of H. A. Payne 209. 

ROCKWELL PETER, r 36, farmer 130. 

Rockwood James W., r 38, farmer' 10. 

Rounsevell George B., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) (Higgins & R.) r 18. 

ROYCE AMELIA B., wife of George C, farmer 120, h Main. 

Royce Frederick B., r 6, dairy 10 cows, farmer 141. 

ROYCE GEORGE C, breeder and dealer in Clay horses, prop, stock horse 
Good Luck Clay, and farmer 120, h Main. 

Royce John B., r 6, retired farmer 60, aged 92. 

Sargent Orrin, (Wilson Creek) r 33, farmer 45. 

Sargent Silas, (Wilson Creek) r 33, farmer. 

Scott Charl^& Edmund F., r 22 cor. 41, apiarists, 65 to 100 colonies, egg 
and poultry raising, dairy 15 cows, 70 sheep, sugar orchard 300 trees, 
and farmers 247. 

Scudder George D., teamster. Main. 

Seamans Samuel M., general blacksmith, Main. 

Sears Quincy A., r 38, farmer 25. 

■Shaflf James H., r 30, farmer 90. 

Shaff John D., r 9, dairy 16 cows, farmer 125. 

Shaff Joseph, r 9, farmer 5. 

STARKEY & W^INXBKS, Drnffglsts, Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



52 TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 



-Shaff William H., r ii, farmer loo. 

5haw William F., r 5, farmer, son of William T. , 

SHAW WILLIAM T., r S. breeder of short-horn cattle, dairy 30 cows, 20 

head young stock and farmer 265. 
Shepard C. Burton, r 28, farmer 50. 

Shepard James, r 3, apiarist, breeder of horses and farmer 100. 
Shepard John, r 29 1-2, farmer 140. 
Sherman Edward A., (Ketchumville) r 33, farmer 105. 
Sherman James W., (Wilson Creek) r 27, carpenter, dairy 10 cows, sugar 

orchard 200 trees and farmer 72. 
SHERWOOD & HORTON, (H. G. S. & C. S. H. of English Center, Pa.) 

manuf. of wagon hubs, opp. Depot. 
SIMMONDS ALPHEUS, r 3, dairy 12 cows, farmer 135. 
Simmonds Charilla, r 3, wife of Alpheus, farm 55. 
Simmonds George A., r 3, farmer. 
SIMMONS SYLVESTER, (Jenksville) r 41, farmer. 
SIMMONS WILLIAM E., (Jenksville) r 41, dairy 12 cows, breeder of 

horses and farmer 133. 
SkeUinger Daniel J., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r3 cor. 18, cooper. 
SMITH ARTHUR E., r 4, sugar orchard 200 trees, farmer 93. 
Smith Edwin, farmer s°i h Elm. 
Smith Emory J., stone and plaster mason, h Railroad. 
Smith George M., r 3, threshing and farmer 100. 
Smith Ira J., r 3, tanner. 
Smith John, engineer hub factory, bds. Elm. 
Smith Mary J., r 4, widow Ezekiel D., resident. 
Snedaker George, r 38, tool-maker. 
Snedaker John, r 38, manuf. of tanners' beam knives, mill-stone picks and 

edge tools, also farmer 19. 
Snedaker WilUam V., r 38, laborer. 
Sparrow Frank, emp. hub factory, h Glen. 
Spencer Charles D., r 11 1-2, farmer 105. 
Stanton Elisha W., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, tin pedlar. 
Stephens Andrew, r 13, farmer 30. 
Summerville Grant, r 6, night watch, tannery. 
Sykes GeorgeD., r 39, teacher and farmer. 

Sykes Horatio W., r 39, dairy ro cows, sugar orchard 100 trees, farmer 114. 
Taylor John H., farmer, leases J. W. Leonard. 
Thompson Charles, r 28, laborer. 
Thompson Samuel, farm in Rich ford 80, h Depot.' 
Thorn Charles F., (Wilson Creek) r 35, farmer. 
Thorn Susan M., (Wilson Creek) r 35, widow Henry M., farm 63. 
Thuillard Hyppolite, r 21, dairy 11 cows, farmer no. 
Torrey Betsey B., resident, h Main. 
Torrey Charles S., r 40, farmer. 
Torrey John, r 40, dairy 10 cows, farmer 117. 

Torrey Lewis S., r 41, farmer, leases of Lyman Baker, of Candor, 143. 
Towslee Delos, r 38, farmer, leases of R. Brown 13. 
Turner Luther M., (Wilson Creek) r 29, road commissioner, farmer 50. 
Turner William J., r 38, laborer. 
Tyler Sherman B., r 14, laborer. 
WALDO ELIJAH B., (Williams & Waldo) station and express agent, also 

dealer in butter, eggs and poultry, h Williams. 



TOWN OF BERKSHIRE. 55 

Waldo Hannah B., widow Dr. Joseph T., resident, h Main. 

Waldo Juliette, widow Dwight, h Elm. 

WALDO ROBERT EMMET, r 36, dairy 12 cows, farmer 106. 

Walk.er Erastus T., r 3, farmer 68. 

Walter Joseph S., r 27 cor. 1 1, physician and surgeon, and farmer 200. 

Watkins John F., r 9, laborer. 

Wauvle James A., r 9, farmer 72. 

Wavle Peter, r 29^, wool grower 47 head, dairy 18 cows, and farmer with 

J. Shepard 30. 
Whitaker Charles E., (Wilson Creek) r 34, dairy 7 cows, sugar orchard 400- 

trees, farmer 40; served in Co. F, 144th N. Y. Vols. 
Whiting Caroline, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, widow Samuel, farm 80. 
Whiting Frank S.. (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, blacksmith and farmer. 
WILLIAMS & WALDO, (M. A. W., E. B. W. and A. B. W.) apiarists, and 

dealers in honey and bee-keepers' supplies. 
Williams Eugene L., (Wilson Creek) r 27, farmer, leases of Lewis^jWilliams 100. 
Williams George, apiarist, prop, saw-mill, and farmer 190. 
Williams Harvey J., r 9, farmer 50. 
Williams Lewis,, farmer 98, h Railroad. 

WILLIAMS MORRIS A., (Williams & Waldo) dealer in potatoes, h Depot. 
WINSHIP EDGAR., r 9, dairy 12 cows, farmer 100. 
Winship William, r 9, farmer. 
Wiswell Jerome B., (Ketchuraville) r 31, farmer 60. 
WITTER F. A. & CO., (Fred W. Witter) dealers in hardware, cutlery and 

household furniture, agricultural implements, also horse blankets, whips, 

shingles, etc., Main, h do. 
WITTER FRANK A., (F. A. W. Sc Co.) h Main. 
WITTER FRED W., (F. A. W. & Co.) h Main. 
Wooster Asher B., r 6, stationary engineer. 
Wright William F., r 8, sawyer, and farmer 94. 
A^nDyke Egbert, blacksmith and mechanic. 
VAN GORDER CHARLES B., engineer in hub factory. 
VAN GORDER GEORGE, r 38, farmer. 
VanNorman Don R., bridge carpenter, h Elm. 
VanNorman Fred, brakeman, h Elm. 
VanSusan Clause, r 13, farmer 54. 
Van Susan Diedrick, r 8, laborer. 
VanSusten Diedrick, r 6, laborer. 
Young Edward W., carpenter, h Main. 
Young David H., (Jenksville) r 44 cor. 43, farmer. 
Youngs Morris, r 29, farmer 25. 
Youngs Orson R., r 27, laborer. 
YOUNGS PETER, r 29, farrier, dairy 6 cows, farmer 82. 



54 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



CANDOR. 



{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second^ 
(PostofEce address is Candor, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Abbey William, r 112, carpenter. 

Adams Gay lord W., resident, bds. Spencer. 

Adkin Arcelius, r in, laborer. 

Ahart George, emp. Woolen Mills, h Preston. 

Ahlers Dederick G., cooper, h Gould. 

Aignor William, farmer, h Kinney. 

Allen Ben, farmer, h Kinney. 

Allen Ben, Jr., laborer, h Main. 

Allen Frank, (West Candor) r log, farmer 54. 

Allen Frank, laborer, h off Kinney. 

Allen Frank G., r 57, farmer 130. 

Allen Hiram,- r 57, resident. 

ALLEN HOUSE, Iddo Vergason, proprietor. Main. 

Allen Increase, lumberman, h Kinney. 

Allen James M., r 29, carpenter and farmer 32. 

Allen John J., r 99, farmer 16. 

Allen Judson K., farmer 100, h Owego. 

Allen Matthew K., farmer 50, h Owego. 

Allen William D., r 29, carpenter and farmer 10. 

ANDERSON EDWIN S., (Owego) r 126, farmer 151. 

Anderson Ezra L., r 46, farmer. 

Anderson George M., (Owego) r 123, farmer. 

Anderson Joel, (Owego) r 123, apiarist and farmer in. 

Anderson Leroy, r 46, farmer 75. 

Anderson Myron, (Catatonk)r n6, farmer 100. 

ANDERSON PHILANDER, (Owego) r 123, farmer 250. 

Anderson Stephen, (Catatonk) r 116, farmer 139. 

Anderson Sylvenus, (Owego) r 131, farmer 75. 

Anderson Truman, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer 100. 

Anderson Willis, (Owego) r 124, farmer 85, and leases of Philander Ander- 
son, 200. 

Andrews Charles H., (Owego) r 117, leases of D. W. Andrews, 100. 

Andrews Dana H., (Owego) r 123, farmer 25, and leases of Philetus An- 
drews, 212. 

Andrews David W., (Owego) r 118, farmer 200. 

Andrews Elmer E., (Owego) r 118, school teacher and farmer. 

Andrews Frank, (Flemingville) farmer with Charles Crane, leases of John 
M. Grimes, 120. 

ANDREWS LEVI, (Owego) r 131, farmer 175. 

Andrews Thomas, (Owego) r 131, farmer 103. 

Andrews William H., general merchant, Front, h do. 

Andrews William R., clerk, bds. Front. 

Armitage Ann E., widow Alfred, h Owego. 

STARKE V & TTINTERS, -Wliolesale and Retail Druggists, Owego. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 5$ 



Armitage Claude, clerk, h Owego. 

ASHLAND HOUSE, Frank J. Norton, prop., Main. 

Ayers Willis, (Willseyville) r 30, carpenter. 

BACON GEORGE G., r 65. music teacher, agent for musical instruments 

fruitgrower, and manuf. vinegar. 
'Bacon Harvey, r 116 cor. 99, farmer 10. 
JBacon John G., r 65, farmer 100. 
Bailey Charity M., widow William, resident, bds. Main. 
Baird James L., (Speeds ville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer 100. 
Bakeman Isaac, r 54, farmer 15. 
Baker Aaron, (Caroline Center, Tomp. Co.) r 12, with William L., lumberman 

and farmer t8o. 
Baker Jesse, r 71, farmer 30. 

Baker Lyman, (Caroline Center, Tomp. Co.) t 12^ farmer in Berkshire 145. 
Baker William L., (Caroline Center, Tomp. Co.) r 12, with Aaron Baker 

lumberman and farmer 180. 
Bangs Charles E., r 90, teacher, and farmer 4. 
Bangs William L., r 90, farmer 100. 
Banks Alanson, (Willseyville) r 3 1, farmer 90. 
Banks Nathan j., (Willseyville) r 31, farmer. 
BARAGER CHARLES F.. senator 26th district, prop. Candor Woolen 

Mills, also lumber business in Chenango Co.j h Main. 
Barber Hiram, r 139, cooper. 

Barber John J., (Willseyville) r i, leases of John Foote 37. 
Barber Washington, r 57, laborer. 
Barden Robert S., r 24, carpenter, and farmer 97. 

Barden William, (Strait's Corners) r 112, farmer, leases of B. Coursen 108. 
Barker George, r 63, laborer. 

Barnes Charles W., farmer with his father James D. 
Barnes Hugh S., (Catatonk) r 130, farmer 95. 
B.3nes James D., lumberman, and farmer 100. 
Barnes Thomas, (Catatonk) r 130, farmer 70. 
■Barnes William, r 104, farmer 100. 
Barrett EUiott, (West Newark) r 49, farmer 250. 
Barrett Justus, (Welton ville) r 82, farmer, leases of Theodore Cortright, of 

Qwego, 40. 
Barrett Sidney A., (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 35. 
BARRETT VAN NESS, (Jenksville) r 50, farmer 225. 
BARROTT AMMIEL W., (Weltonville) r 120, dealer in livestock and farm 

produce, breeder of Hambletonian and Messenger horses, farmer 120, 

and leases of Abel Galpin 60. 
BARROTT SAMUEL R., (Weltonville) r 82, prop, of siw and grist-mill, 

and dealer in -lumber, lath, meal and feed, farmer 500, also lumberyard, 

and two tenements at Athens, Pa. 
Barrott Simeon W., (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 190. 
BARROTT VAN NESS W., (Weltonville) r 84, carpenter, and farmer, leases 

of Simeon W. Barrott 75. 
Barto Wilham, (Weltonville) r 83, sawyer, and farmer 50. 
Bateman Joseph, (Weltonville) r 1 20, laborer. 
Bates James P., r 99, farmer 94. 
■Baylor Charles F., blacksmith, Main, h Bank. 
Baylor Daniel H., blacksmith, h Kinney. 

STARKEY & WINXBilS, promptly fill mall and Telepbone Orders. 



56 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Beadle Jared J., farmer. 

Beebe Abram, prop. Candor grist-mill, Main, h do. 

Beebe Clark, emp. Candor grist-mill, h Ithaca. 

Beeley John, (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer, leases of J. Dougherty 52. 

Beers George H., (Catatonk) r 129, farmer 52. 

Belden James P., r 38, farmer 220. 

Benedict Archibald W., (Willseyville) r 30, farmer. 

Benton James F., (Speedville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 55. 

Best David, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer 186. 

Best George, (Strait's Corners) r 142, farmer 100. 

Best John J., (Catatonk) r 115, farmer z3. 

Best Richard, r T12, laborer. 

Bishop Charles E., (Jenksville) r 49, farmer, leases of LW. Gay, of Berkshire 90. 

Bishop James, fire and life insurance. Main, h do. 

Blewer Fred A., (Weltonville) r 120, farmer 50. 

Blewer Levi, (Weltonville) r 84, laborer. 

Blewer M. Lamont, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 45. 

Blinn Burdette, (Wilseyville) r 20, laborer. 

BUnn Charles, r 56, section hand. 

Blinn Eli R., (Jenksville) r 24, farmer 85. 

BUnn Elmer, r 44, farmer. 

Blinn Lewis, r 44, farmer 94. 

Blinn Samuel E., farmer 122. 

Blinn Sherman P., r 29 farmer 100. 

Blinn Thomas P., r 29, farmer 60. 

Blodgett Charles O., (Weltonville) r 84, farmer, leases of S. R. Barrott 230. 

Blow Minard, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer, leases of Jasper Galpin, 50. 

Bogardus George M., (Willseyville) r 30, farmer. 

Bogert Peter, farmer 84, h Owego. 

Boget William, (Strait's Corners) r 137, farmer 112. 

Bolton Clarence S., blacksmith and horseshoer. Main, h do. 

Bolton Lewis, emp. L. A. Hart, h Main. 

Booth & Williams, (E. A. B. & E. S. W.) general merchants. Front. 

Booth Brothers, (J. F. & T. S.) r 56, manufs. and dealers in lumber, and 

farmers 300. 
Booth Catharine, r 37, widow of Abel H., farmer with George D., zi8. 
Booth Dfennis, r 37, retired farmer. 

Booth Edwin A., (Booth & Williams) also prest. First Nat. Bank, h Main. 
BOOTH FREEMAN, r 37, farmer 206. 
Booth George D., r 37, farmer with Catharine 218. 
BOOTH HORACE F., fire insurance, prest. board of Education, and prop. 

Candor Iron Works, Main, h do. 
Booth Jesse F., (Booth Bros.) r 56. 
Booth Mary, widow Horace, h Main. 
Booth Orange, r 37 cor. 57, lumberman, and farmer 250. 
Booth Theron S., (Booth Bros.) r 56. 
Booth Wakefield, r 37, resident. 

Borthwick Alexander, (Jenksville) r 50, farmer, leases of Isaac D. Van Scoy 1 28. 
Bortle Lawrence R.j r 45, laborer. 
Boyd Andrew, r 69, farmer 30. 
Boyd Benjamin, r 69, farmer 30. 
Braman Jesse H., stone mason, h Bank. 
Braman Norton M., farmer, works for Mrs. Terwilligar 200, h Owego. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 5; 



Briggs Mary L., resident, bds. Foundry. 

Brink Homer A., (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 81. 

Brink James S., r 70, thresher, and farmer 40. 

Brink Joseph, r 54, farmer 25. 

Brink Laverne, emp. W. J. Milks', bds. Spencer. 

Brink Marland, (Weltonville) r 84, farmer. 

Brink Philemon, (Weltonville) r 81, farmer, leases of W. B. Thomas 40. 

Brink Stephen I., off r 1 16, laborer.. 

Brooks George T., contractor and builder, h Owego. 

Brown Frank J., (Willseyville) r 30, farmer, leases of Wakeman Smith 215. 

BROWN FRANK W., (West Candor) r 61, station and Natl, express agt., 

and telegraph operator. 
Brown Sarah J., widow Jeremiah F., dressmaker. 
Brundage Lydia, widow Emmet, h Main. 
Burch L. H. Rev. rector St. Mark's Church, h Main. 
Burchard Dana D., (Owego) r 131, farmer 52. 
Burchard Elias, (Flemingville) r 122, farmer. 
Burchard Franklin, (Flemingville) r 122, farmer. 
Burchard Jason, (Flemingville) r 122, farmer. 
Burchard Nelson, (Owego) r. 122, farmer 100. 
Burleigh Alfred, r 56, laborer. 
Burleigh Eben, r 39, carpenter. 
Burleigh Hezekiah, r 39, farmer 44. 
Burleigh Millard F., r 39, farmer 50. 
Burrows James, foreman woolen mills, h Church. 
Burt George, (Catatonk) r 133, farmer 138. 
Burt Lincoln C;, (Catatonk) r 133, farmer with George. 
Bush Abram R., (Willseyville) r 30, dealer in groceries. 
Bush Elizabeth B., widow Isaac L., resident, h Owego. 
Butler Orrin, (Strait's Corners) r 108, farmer 100. 
Candor Humboldt Tannery, (E. S. Estey & Sons, props.) Front. 
CANDOR IRON WORKS, (H. F. Booth, prop.) Foundry. 
CANDOR WOOLEN MILLS, (Charles F. Barager, prop.) manuf. horse 

blankets. Main. 
Caple Adam, r 104, teacher of vocal music, farmer 172. 
Capel Edward, (Owego) ofFr 131, laborer. 
Capel George, (Owego) r 117, laborer. 
Capel John, (Owego) ofFr 131, farmer 50. 
Caple Elgin P., r 104, farmer. 
Caple Philip, (Catatonk) r 129, farmer 52. 
Caple Philip J., (Catatonk) r 129, farmer 50- 
Card George, (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer. 
Card Timothy, r 104, laborer. 
Carl Peter, carpenter, h Owego. 
Carlan William, (Catatonk) r 114, farmer 100. 
Carlin James, emp. Frank L. Hfeath, bds. Main. 
Carpenter Eliza A., r 63, widow Norman L., farm 150. 
Carpenter Harry L., (Weltonville) r 84, house painting and graining. 
Carpenter Orby V., blacksmith, machinist, etc., R. R. ave., h do. 
CARPENTER WILLIAM L., blacksmith, machinist and wagon maker, 

R. R. ave., h do. 
Carroll Thomas, r 95, farmer, works for Eliza Carroll 57. 
Cass Frank, (Strait's Corners) r 108, farmer 48, and with William 152. 



S8 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



■Cass Samuel, (Strait's Corners) r 1 08,, farmer 107. 

Cass William, (Strait's Corners) r 108, farmer 75, and with Frank Cass 152. 

Casterline Romeo W., (Strait's Corners) r 138, general blacksmithing. 

Chandler Williamj (Catatonk) r 127, farmer 46. 

Chapman Amos C., farmer, h Owego. 

Chapman Foster, (Catatonk) laborer. 

-Chapman George, emp. woolen mill, bds. Mountain ave. 

Chapman John D., farm laborer, h Mountain ave. 

Chapman Milford, emp. woolen mill, h Railroad. 

Chidester Chauncey W., (Weltonville) r 120, physician and surgeon. 

CHIDSEY GEORGE C., liveryman, h Main. 

CHIDSEY JOHN R., postmaster, also dealer in hardware, stoves and ped- 
dlers' supplies, Front, h do. 

Chidsey Leonard, butcher, h Owego. 

Clark Alexander H., (Catatonk) r 114, farmer 126. 

Clark Herbert, r 54, farmer 10. 

Clarke Leroy, r44, farmer, works for Hiram J. Clark 180. 

Cleveland Charles, r 29, laborer. 

Cleveland George M., (Willseyville) r i, millwright and farmer 7. 

Cleveland Joseph, r 5, laborer. 

Coggin Loama I., r 139, farmer, works for Mrs. L. T. Coggin 10. 

Cogswell Mary J., widow Joel, resident, h Owego. 

Cole Jennie Mrs., resident, h Academy. 

Cole William J., retired, h Main. 

Compton Amos, (Catatonk) r 127, laborer. 

COMSTOCK WILLIAM I., (Jenksville) r 20, farmer 175. 

Coney Stephen, (West Candor) r 107, farmer lo. 

Conklin Catherine B., widow Ephraim,/esident, h Church. 

Conklin Christopher, farmer, h Church. 

Conklin Levi, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 21, farmer 120. 

Conklin Norman, farmer, h Church. 

CONNELL THOMAS J., clerk Allen House, bds. do. 

Conrad George, r 7, farmer 41. 

Cook Ezra S., (Weltonville) r 82, laborer. 

Cook John W., (Strait's Corners) r 142, farmer 70. 

Cook Joseph, r 93, laborer. 

Coon Alonzo H., (Strait's Corners) r 143, threshing and farmer with Will- 
iam I. 112. 

Coon William I., (Strait's Corners) r 143, threshing and farmer with Alonzo 
H. 112. 

Cooper & Thornton, (West Candor) (J. H. C. & G. H. T.) r 62, cider-mill 
and threshing machine. 

Cooper Caroline J., widow Arnold N., resident, h Kinney. 

Cooper Fred B., (Strait's Corners) r 128, general store. 

COOPER JOHN H., (West Candor) r 62, market gardening, 5 1-2 acres. 

Cornick William, r 136, laborer. 

Cornish Albert A., r 95, boot and shoemaker, farmer 27. 

CortHght Amos J., (Weltonville) r 120, farmer 70. 

Cortright Charles H., (Weltonville) r 86, farmer 80. 

Cortright Collins, (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 75. 

Cortright Franklin, (Weltonville) r 84, stone mason, farmer 65. 

Cortright George, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer too. 

Cortright James, r 40, resident. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 59 



•Cortright James, (Weltonville) r 84^ retired. 

Cortright James F., (Weltonville) r 120, retired farmer. 

-CORTRIGHT JOSEPH J., (Weltonville) r 86, carpenter and joiner, far- 

♦ mer 40. 
Cortright Marion A., (Weltonville) r 84, laborer. 
: Cortright Samuel, (Weltonville) r 120, retired farmer 30. 
Cortright William C, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 40. 
Coursen Bartley, (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 350. 
Coursen John M., (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 72. 
-Coursen Thomas H., r 95, farmer 30. 
Courtright Henry A., (West Newark) r 82, dealer in agricultural implements, 

and farmer 100. 
COWLES JAMES C, r 91, building moving, mason and farmer 65. 
-Cowles J. Harvey, r 116, farmer 54. 
Crance DeWitt C, resident, h Railroad. 
•Crance Mary, widow Abram, resident, h Railroad. 
Crane Charley, (Flemingville) r 122, shoemaker. 
Cranmer I. J., resident, h Pond. 
-Crine Llewellyn, r 12, student. 
Crine Perkins S., r 12, farmer. 
Crine Stephen D., r 12, dairy farmer 260. 
-Cronk Byron E. Rev., (Bapt.) commissioner of highways ; also, contractor 

and builder. 
■Cronk William D., r 90, manufacturer of birch and sairsaparilla beer, and agt. 

for the Grand Union Tea Co. 
Crum Lafayette, (West Candor) r 108, farmer 240. 
Crum McDonough, farmer, h Spencer. 
•Cummings William W., r 58, farmer, leases of J. Tompkins, of Spencer, 200, 

and of Ezra Bostwick, of Cortland, 96. 
Curtis Fred, farmer. 
-Curtis William, r 5, wagonmaker. 
•Custard Anson, (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 71. 
Cutchee Ambrose^ (Catatonk) r 133, tanner. 

Daggett William, (Jenksville) r 51, farmer, leases of Elizabeth Fuller, 73. 
Dames Joseph O., retired, h Preston. 
Darmody Thomas, laborer, h Railroad ave. 
Davis Frank, fireman. 

Dean Josie, r 57, station and express agt. 1 

-Decker Oliver H. P., resident, bds. Owego. 
Decker Samuel, r 98, teaming and farmer go. 
Decker William, r 119, laborer. 

DeGraw John, tin and hardware. Main, h Ann cor. McQirty. 
DENNIS ALFRED, r 53, farmer 264. 
Dennis Fred M., r 53, laborer. 
Dennis Lorena Mrs., resident^ h Owego. 
Dennis Marvin, r 54, farmer with Wesley 167. 
Dennis Wesley, r 54, teacher and farmer with Marvin 167. 
Dewey Daniel, (Strait's Corners) r 142, laborer. 
Dewey Frank E., r in, farmer 92. 
Deyo Jacob, (Weltonville) r 86, farmer 67. 
Dixon Henry S., silversmith, h Church. 
DIXON JOHN C, physician and surgeon, Main, h do. 
Dohs George, (Catatonk) r 133, night watchman in tannery. 



6o TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Dohs Jacob, (Catatonk) r 133,, farmer 12^. 

Doty Delos A., r 28^ farmer, leases of James Doty 78. 

Doty Edward J., clerk, h Thompson. 

Doty George L., farmer 25. 

Doty James, r 26, farmer 275. 

Doty John J., r 73, farmer, leases of Samuel Decker 90. 

Doty John Mrs., resident, h Kinney. 

Doughty Andrew J., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 19, farmer 11. 

Doughty Epenetus, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 19, farmer 140 and in Caro- 
line no. 

Douglass George, (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 132. 

Douglass John, farmer, 148, h Owego. 

Douglass Otis A., (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer. 

Douglass William, (Strait's Corners) r 141, farmer 105. 

Downing Jay S., r 87, fruit grower and farmer 39.- 

Downing Kay M., r 70, farmer. 

Downing Lincoln L., r 70, farmer. 

DOWNING STOUGHTON S., r 70, fruit grower, and farmer 120. 

Draper Cynthia P., (Catatonk) r 133, widow Ira, resident. 

DRAPER MENZ V., (Catatonk) r 130, blacksmith, and farmer 70. 

Drew George, (Catatonk) r 114, laborer. 

Duel Smith, r 36, farmer 50. 

Duff Alexander B., (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 94. 

DU MOND DAVIDj cider-mill, and grain thresher, Ashland, h Main. 

Dykeman Orrin, r 57, refused to give information. 

Dykeman Solonas, r 56, farmer 45. 

Dykeman William H., farm laborer, h Owego. 

Eastham Nathan, (Strait's Corners) r 142, lumberman, and farmer 231. 

Eastham Thomas, (Strait's Corners) r 142, lumberman, and farmer. ■ 

Eastman Amos,(Willseyville) r 2, farmer 75, and works for his wife Rachael 150, 

Eastman John N., (Willseyville) r i, farmer 85, and leases of Barlow San- 
ford 130. 

Eastman Morgan, (Willseyville) r i, farmer. 

Easton Zenas ^., r 98, watchman, hand lot. 

Eccleston David, painter, h R. R. ave. 

EDMUNDS CALEB W., r 98, sawyer, and farmer 15. 

Edwards Caroline Mrs., laundress, h Owego. 

Eichenburgh George, r 56, sawyer. 

Eiklor George I., r 8, carpenter and builder, blacksmithing, farmer 50. 

Ellison John T., r 28, farmer, leases of Joel Starkweather 84. 

Ellsworth Erv-in A., salesman, h Owego. 

Ellsworth Frederick, r 28, farmer 50. 

Eimendorf Clarence, carpenter, bds. Main. 

ELMENDORF CYRENUS, contractor and builder, h Main. 

Eimendorf George E., (Strait's Corners) r 141, farmer 112, and leases of 
Abram White 70. 

Eimendorf Jonathan, (Strait's Corners) r 141, resident. 

Embody Jacob, wagon-maker, Spencer, h do. 

Embody Jacob C, cartman, h Gould. 

Emerson Charity, (Strait's Corners) r 128, widow James, carpet-weaving. 

Emerson Chester, (Strait's Corners) r 137, farmer 56. 

Emerson Frederick A., (Strait's Corners) r 137, farmer 50. 

Emery Sarah, (Strait's Corners) r 109, widow Isaac, farm 75. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 6 1 



Ervay Charles, (Wiilseyville) r 3, farmer, leases of Ira Hoose. 
Evans Richard, (Strait's Corners) r 143, farmer 50. 
Evans Stephen C., salesman, h Main. 
Farley Daniel, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 83. 
Farley Eh J., (Speedsville, Torap. Co.) r 14, carpenter, and farmer g. 
Farley EUyn, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 20. 
Farley Martin, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 30. 
Faurot Mary Mrs., emp. blanket factory, h Owego. 
Fellows James, (Strait's Corners) r 143, farmer 82. 
Ferris Elihu, r 35, farmer 60. 
Ferris George, (West Candor) r 107, farmer 30. 
Ferris James, (West Candor) r 107, farmer. 
Ferris Oliver, (West Candor) r 107, farmer 40. 
Ferris Richard R., r 35, farmer 61. 

Ferris Sarah, (West Candor) r 107, widow Stephen, farm 25. 
Ferris Theron W., r 35, farmer 50. 

FESSENDEN DAVID S., (William L. & Son) cabinet-maker. 
FESSENDEN WILLIAM L., (W. L. & Son) pastor Wesleyan Methodist 
church. Candor, and South Beecher hill and Spaulding hill. 

FESSENDEN W. L. & SON, (William L. & David S.) manufs. and dealers 
in furniture, undertaking goods, etc., Owego, h do. 

Fiebig Charles F., carriage painter, Main, h Owego. 

Fiebig Frances Mrs., resident, bds. Owego. 

Fiebig John P., traveUng salesman, bds. Main. 

FIELD RICHARD, mason, h Mountain ave. 

Filcinger Gabriel, (Wiilseyville) r 1, resident. 

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CANDOR, (E. A. Booth, prest., J. W. 
McCarty, vice-prest., J Thompson, cash.) Main. 

Fisher John W., groceries and provisions. Main, h do. 

Fitch Chancy S., r 46, farmer 114. 

Fitch Frank E.. r 46, farmer. 

Flack Thomas W., (Catatonk) r 133, carpenter. 

Fogarty John J., r 41, laborer. 

Foot Sheldon W., r 103, resident. 

Foot William, r 103, farmer 50. 

Ford Nelson, laborer, h Owego. 

Forsyth George, retired, h Humeston. 

Foster Charles/(Jenksville)r 20, farmer 128. 

Foster Charles H., laborer. 

Foster Cyrus A., cooper, h Main. 

FOSTER JONAS S., (Jenksville) r 20, farmer 178. 

Foster Richard,, (Jenksville) r 20, farmer. 

Fredenburg Henry, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer, leases of Frank Whitmarsh, 
of Owego, 30. 

FronkFred, (Catatonk) r 134 cor. 115, carpenter and farmer 30. 

Frost John O., furniture dealer and undertaker, Main, h do. 

Fuller Alvah, teamster, h Main. 

Fuller Elizabeth, (Jenksville) rsi, widow Robert, farm 73. 

Fuller George B., resident, bds. JCinney. 

Fuller Gritman E., (Weltonville) r 78, farmer. 

Fuller Jacob C, r 29, farmer 112. 

Fuller Marvin, laborer, h Kinney. 

Fuller Radaker, r 52, lumberman and farmer 96. 



62 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



FULLER SAMUEL G., r 52, teacher and farmer 27. 

Fuller Willard, r 54, farmer 25. 

Gaige Henry, r 116, farmer zo. 

Gaige James E., (Owegb) r 118, farmer 50. 

Gaige Thomas, (Owego) r 132, farmer go. 

Galpin Abel F., (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 60. 

Galpin Catharine W., (Weltonville) r 85, widow Samuel, resident. 

Galpin Edward, (Weltonville) r 85, carpenter and farmer 87. 

Galpin George F., (Weltonville) r 74, with W. A. Mead and S. F. Galpin,. 

steam threshing, hay pressing and sawing. 
Galpin James T., (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 80. 
Galpin Jasper, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 95. 
GALPIN JERUSHA, (Weltonville) r 53, widow Elisha, farm 58. 
Galpin Luzern, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 60; 
Galpin Mary J., (Weltonville) r 53, wife of Taylor L., farm 52. 
Galpin Myron K, (Weltonville) r 53, farmer. 
Galpin Nelson, (Weltonville) r 78, farmer 91. 
Galpin Robert C., (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 76. 
Galpin Sidney F., (Weltonville) r 73, with W. A. Mead and G. F. Galpin,. 

steam threshing, and farmer, leases ot Jasper Galpin 51. 
Galpin Taylor L., (Weltonville) r 53, farmer. 
Galpin Wayland, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 60. 
Gardner Charles, r 99, farmer 146. 
Gates Eugene O., farmer, Owego. 
Gay Nathaniel, (Jenksville) r 24, laborer. 
German Cyrus B., contractor and builder, h Young. 
German Edward C, telegraph operator, bds. Young. 
German Frederick E., carpenter, bds. Young. 
Gibbons Frank, mason, h Bank. 

GILLMAN ROBERT C, r 30, farmer, leases of T. VanVleet 170. 
Gould Franklin, (Catatonk) r 131, resident. 
Graham Andrew J., (Weltonville) shoemaker. 
Gransbury Edward, r 102, carpenter. 
Grant James M., r 46, canvasser and farmer 58. 

GRIDLEY CHARLES F., (West Candor) r 62, postmaster and farmer 250.- 
Gridley Charles L., (West Candor) r 60, farmer. 
Gridley Charles N., r 36, farmer, leases of Newton S. Gridley 120. 
Gridley Demorn, r 63, carpenter. 
Gridley Newton S., r 36, farmer 120. 

GRIDLEY S. EGBERT, prop, planing mill, and farmer 250, h Owego. 
Gridley William C, (West Candor) r 60, lime and plaster, and farmer 115. 
GRIFFIN FRED G., (N. W. Griffin & Son) bds. Main. 
Griffin Lewis, r 56, farmer 295. 

GRIFFIN NEHEMIAH W., (N. W. Griffin & Son) h Main. 
GRIFFIN N. W. & SON., (Fred G.) livery, draymen and express. Main. 
Griffin Walter, laborer. 
GRIMES JOHN M., (Flemingsville) r 121, retired M. E. clergyman and' 

farmer 152. 
Guiles Andrew, (Strait's Corners) r 142, laborer. 
Hadden Stephen, r 139, farmer. 
Haddock Eugene B., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer, leases of S- 

Blackman 100. 
Haddock John V., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 63: 



Hale Dorcas, widow John, h Kinney. 

Hale Lester B., r 103, farmer 100. 

Hale Samuel, r 103, farmer. 

Sail Edward R., principal Candor Academy, bds. Allen House. 

Hall Emeline, r 58, widow Lewis, resident. 

Hall LaFayette, (Willseyville) r i, farmer 2. 

Hallett Charles, (Willseyville) r i, farmer 25. 

Hammond Burt, (Weltonville) r 120, farmer 58. 

Hammond Seth, (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 91.' 

Hand Harold N., r 64, laborer. 

Handy Fernando D., weaver, h Foundry. 

Handy Hannah C, widow James, h Foundry. 

Hanes Erastus, r 63, well drilling. 

Harding Charles O., painter, h Kinney. 

Harding Odell, painter, bds. Kinney. 

Harding Sherman, carpenter, h Bank. 

HARRIS ALGERNON J., physician and surgeon, Main, h do. • 
, HARRIS CYNTHIA E., widow Dr. John J.; resident, Main. 

Hart Edward D . r 29, farmer 25. 

Hart George H., farmer 120, h Main. 

Hart Janette, off r 36, widow William, farm 75. 

Hart John N., r 88, farmer, leases of Charles Mead 76. 

Hart Jonathan B., r 63 cor. 64, retired cabinet maker, and farmer 33. 

HART LEWIS A., dealer in produce, agricultural implements and phos- 
phates; also, farmer 370, Main, h do. 

Hart Louisa, widow Abel, resident, h Owego. 

Hart Norman, apiarist, and farmer 140, and leases of his brother Horace 50. 

Hart Reuben, r 88, farmer with John N. 

Hart Selah, retired farmer, h Main. 

Hart well Warren T., jeweler, Main, h do. 

Hasbrouck Josephus, (Willseyville) (Hoose & Hasbrouck) r 30,' farmer 200.- 

Haskell Theodore A., (Jenksville) r 49, farmer 50. 

Haskins George, r 69, laborer. 

Haskins James, laborer, h Mountain ave. 

Hatch Malinda, widow Russell, resident, h Railroad. 

Hatch Parker, (Weltonville) r 85, carpenter, and farmer 50. 

Haynard Frink, r 97, farmer. 

Hazen Daniel, (Strait's Corners) r 140, farmer 84. 

Hazen Orlando L., (Strait's Corners) r 140, farmer 39, and works for Daniel' 
Hazen 84. 

Hazen William, laborer, h Pond. 

Head Emmet, (Willseyville) r 32, farmer 100. 

Head Isaac, (Willseyville) r 4. farmer 76. 

Head Lewis, (Willseyville) r i, laborer. 

Head Thomas, r 29, laborer. 

HEATH FRANK L., coal dealer, and station and express agent, h Main. 

HEATH HENRY D., tin and hardware, stoves and agricultural implements. 
Main, h do. 

Heath James H., (Willseyville)- r 30, veterinary surgeon, and notary public,, 
and farmer 6. 

Hedges Daniel A., r 29, farmer 102. 

Hedges Frank M., r 29, farmer. 

Henderson Hiram, r 54, farmer 52. 



64 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



HENDERSON JESSE W., foreman Hulmboldt tannery. 

Henderson Theodore, (Johnson & Henderson) r 78, farmer 65. 

Hendrickson Burton, r 99, farmer 18. 

Herdic Peter, (Strait's Corners) r 139, carpenter, and farmer 47. 

Herrick, Alfred W., (Catatonk) r 116, refused to give information. 

Herri ck Burt., (Weltonville) r 120, farmer. 

Herrick Stephen H., off r 116, farmer 100. 

Herrick Walter, (Weltonville) r 120, farmer 116. 

Hevland James, molder, h Owego. 

HEWITT JASPER W. Rev., r 95, retired M. E. clergyman. 

Hill Charles F., Jr., (Weltonville) r 86, laborer. 

Hills Charles S., (Weltonville) r 77, farmer 150. 

Hills H. George, (Weltonville) r 77, farmer. 

Hines Eddie G., r 54, laborer. 

Hines Jesse A., r 54, farmer 18. 

Hoff Lewis R., grist and flouring-mill, Main, h Owego. 

Holden Dallas, (Weltonville) r 120, wagon-maker and blacksmith, and 

farmer 30. 
HoUenback Eugene B., farm laborer, h Academy. 
Holenback David J., (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer 147. 
Holenback James, r 99, retired. 

Holenback John J., (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer, leases of D. J. H., 67. 
HoUenback Michael D., r 119, laborer. 

Holenback Willard D., (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer, leases of D. J. H., 80. 
HoUister Elsie, r 36, farm 18. 
HoUister George H., (Willseyville) r 30, laborer. 
HoUister Harvey A., r 36, farmer 73. 
HOLLISTER WARREN L., livery. Main, h Railroad. 
- Holmes Frank, tinsmith, bds. Owego. 

Holmes John, dealer in cattle and horses, and farmer 200, h Owego. 
Holmes John, farmer for L. A. Hart, h Main. 
Holmes Robert B., clerk, h Main. 
Holmes Samuel, retired, h Bank. 
Hoose & Hasbrouck, (WiUseyviUe) (Ira & Josephus H.) proprietors steam 

saw-mill, and lumber dealers, opp. depot. 
Hoose C. Frank, (WiUseyviUe) r 3, farmer. 

Hoose Charles W, (WiUseyviUe) r 3, farmer 150, and in Caroline 60. 
Hoose Ira, (WiUseyviUe) (Hoose & Hasbrook) farmer 150. 
Houck Israel, r 95, apiarist 50 colonies, market gardening, and farmer 29. 
Houk George E , r 95, blacksmith and farmer 30. 
House Willard E , D.D. S., dentist, Main, h do. 
Hover Adelbert D., (Weltonville) r 77, farmer 41. 
Hover Benjamin, (West Newark) r 49, farmer, 122. 
Hover Charles F., (Weltonville) laborer. 

Hover Court L., (Jenksville) r 52, farmer, leases of James Newman. 
Hover George, r 73, farmer, leases of Henry Hover 30. 
Hover George F., tanner, h Foundry. 
Hover Henry, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer 100. 
Hover Henry, (WeltonviUe) r 84, resident, aged 96. 
Hover Leander, r 88, blacksmith, and farmer, leases of Henry Hover 30. 
Hover Lettie, widow Alonzo, resident, h Owego. 
Hover L. Frederick, (Weltonville) r 77, laborer. 
Hover Merritt L., (WeltonviUe) r 85, farmer, leases of Henry Hover, 2d, 55. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 6$ 



HOVER ROBERT K, farmer. 

Hover Silas, (Weltonville) r 8i, laborer. 

Hover Solomon, farmer i6o. 

Hover William P., r 73, farmer 20. 

Hover Wilman S., r 43, farmer. 

Howard Alvah, (West Candor) r 106, farmer. 

Howard Alvin, (West Candor) r 62, farmer. 

Howard Edward L., (South Danby, Tomp. Co.) r 34, farmer r84. 

Howard Darius P., r 1 18, farmer. 

HOWARD HIRAM O., r 118, breeder of horses, and farmer 128, and 

leases of Loring P. Howard, of Spencer 115. 
HOWARD HIRAM O., r ii8, horse breeder, and farmer 128, and leases 
of L. P. Howard, of Spencer 115. ' ' 

Howard Martha, widow Samuel, resident, h Railroad. 

Howard Rhoda R., (Catatonk) off r 126, widow Charles C, farm 118. 

Howard Truman F., r 38, farmer 65. 

HOWE EPENETUS, farmer, h Main cor. Mill. 

Howell William, (Willseyville) r i, farmer 30. 

Howes Oscar, carpenter, and farmer 30, h Owego. 

Rowland Dana, r 5, farmer, leases of C. R. Chidsey 40. 

Howland Frederick, farmer 140, h Main. 

Rowland Wilber F., r 38, iron and brass moulder, and farmer 97. 

Hoyt Adoniram, r 28, farmer 5. 

Hoyt Cordelia, widow Emanuel, h Main. 

Hoyt George T., r 88, farmer 50. 

Hoyt S. Judson, r 28, farmer 88. 

HUBBARD ALBERT C, farmer, h Owego. 

Hubbard Frank E., salesman, bds. Owego. 

Hubbard George N., r 116, dealer in hop-poles, farmer 10. 

HUBBARD GEORGE W., r 98, clerk. 

HUBBARD WILLIAM H., r 98, with John F.,of Denver,Col., prop, saw and 
grist-mil), dealer in lumber, lath, and farmer 400. 

Hubbard William J., (Willseyville) r 30, saloon. 

HUFTALING JOHN, apiarist, and emp. Hulmboldt tannery, a member 
Co. C, 86th Regt, N. Y. Vols. 

Hughes Frank, (West Candor) r 62, laborer. 

Hull Daniel O., r 65, farmer, leases of N. T. Hull 95. 

Hull Frederick E., farm laborer, bds. Owego. 

Hull Justin, retired, h Owego. 

Hull Lebbeus, r 63, resident. 

HULL LEONARD, farmer, h Owego. 

Hull Nathan T.,, r 65, farmer 95. 

Hull Warren, r 63, laborer. 

Hulslander Asa, (West Candor) r 105, farmer 90. 

Hulslander Henry J., r 37, farmer no. 

Hulslander Sylvester, r loi, threshing machine and stump pulhng, farmer 60. 

Hulslander William S., r 102, threshing and farming. 

Humiston John H., music teacher, bds. Main. 

Humiston Morris, harness-maker. Railroad, h Main. 

Humphrey James F., (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 30, and' leases of C. L. 
Deyo 65. 

Hunsinger John, (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer 83. 

Hunt Henry, (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer 50. 

5 



66 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Hunt Willis S., r 94, farmer 45. 

Hunt William W., retired physician, h Owego. 

Kurd Edgar D., (Willseyville) r t, farmer 35. 

Hurd John, (Willseyville) r i, farmer 75. 

Hyatt Clark, (Catatonk) rii5, laborer. 

Hyde Persis E., (Strait's Corners) r 109, wife of WiUiam B., farm 60. 

Hyde Silas, (Strait's Corners) r 104, laborer. 

Hyde William B., (Strait's Corners) r 109, farmer. 

JACKSON DWIGHT P., baker, grocer and confectioner, Main, h do. 

Jackson John E., emp. Dwight P. Jackson, bds. Main. 

Jackson Laura, widow John, resident, h Main. 

Jacobs Fred, r 28, farmer 12. 

Jacobs Hiram C, (Weltonville) r 75, Baptist clergyman and farmer 50. 

Jacobs James, r 25, farmer 140. 

Jacobs John W., r 41, farmer 156. 

Jennings Benjamin, (Willseyville) r 31, farmer no. 

Jennings Edwin, retired, h Owego. 

Jennings James H., druggist, Front, h do. 

Johnson Abram, (West Candor) r 62, laborer. 

Johnson Albert L., printer, h 0;vego. 

Johnson & Henderson, (Leonard A. J. & Theodore H.) manufs. wjiip, 

broom and pen-holders, clothes-dryers, ladifes' novelty work-baskets and 

wire goods in general. Church. 
Johnson Charles F., artist penman, h Church. • 
JOHNSON EUGENE, r 102,' farmer. 
Johnson George L., resident, bds. Church. 

Johnson George W., r 102, carpenter and farmer, leases Daniel Johnson 2001 
Johnson Harmon, (Strait's Corners) r 140, farmer 60. 
Johnson Harrison T., r 119, farmer 37. 
Johnson Irving L., r loi, farmer 36. 
Johnson John, (Strait's Corners) r 140, farmer 60. 
lohnson Leonard A., cabinet-maker, Church, h do. 
Johnson Leroy N., r 102, pension agent and farmer. 
JOHNSON MYRON M., clerk, h Bank. 
Johnson Philo, emp. Hulmboldt tannery, h Bank. 
Johnson Rhoda, widow Chester, farm 36. 
JOHNSON SILAS W., r 88, dealer in fruit and berries of all kinds and 

farmer 62. 
Johniion Ulysses S., medical student, bds. Owego. 
Johnson Orange, r 45, farmer 44. 

[ones Charles T., (Strait's Corners) r 137 cor. 134, farmer 130. 
(Ones Sidney W., (^Strait's Corners) r 137 cor 134, farmer 25. 
(ordan Elbert, laborer, h Railroad. 

Jordan Milo, r38, farmer, leases of James P. Belden 220. 
Jordan Frank, r 5, farmer, leases of William Perry, of Spencer, 75. 
Judd Philecta, widow William, farm 53. 
Judd Henry A., resident, bds. Bank. 
fCattell Harmon, r 90, farmer. 

Kattell Marshall R., r 90, carpenter and farmer 150. 
Keeler Ethelbert B., r 94, carpenter an(l mason. 
TCeeler Hiram, r 94, farmer 23. ■ . 

KELSEY DORA G., r 95, farm with Laura A. and Sarah A. 160. 

STARKBT & WINTERS, Wbolesale and Retail Druggists, O'wego^ 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 6/ 



KELSEY LAURA A., r 95, farm with Dora G. and Sarah A. 160. 
KELSEY SERAH A., r 95, farm with Laura A. and Dora G. 160. 
Kelsey Woodbridge, r 95, farmer 112. 
Kenyon John H.. r 25, farmer 53 and leases of Spaulding Bros., of Cortland, 

72, and of George Truman, of Owego, 60. 
KETCHUM WILLIAM P., insurance, pension attorney and notary pub- 
lic, Kinney, h do. 
Kies Chauncey, r 7, farmer 22^. 
-iKirk John, r 28, farmer 70. 
Kirk Richard, r 63, blacksmith. 
Knapp Burr D., (Weltonville) general merchant. 
Knapp Ezekiel W., r 24, farmer 104. 
Knapp Harmon, r 24, farmer. 
Kortright Susan, widow Abram, h Main. 
Krofft George W., r 98, laborer. 
Krofft William, (Catatonk) laborer. 
KROM ABRAM H., r 64, farmer 200. 
Kyle Daniel Y., ( Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer 117 and at Willsey- 

ville 54. 
Kyle Enos J., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, blacksmith and farmer. 
Kyle Samuel F., (Catatonk) (S. F. Kyle & Co.) r 27, farmer 127 and leases. 

of James A. Kyle, of Shenandoah, Iowa, 40. 
Kyle S. F. & Co., (Catatonk) (Samuel F., K. and W; H. Bailey), r 127,. 

baled hay, straw and potatoes. 
Kyle Theron D., (Owego) r 117, fruit grower and farmer 92 J, and leases ofc 

J. A. Kyle 92J. 
Kyle Thomas, retired, h Church. 
La Barre George, blacksmith, h Bank. 
LaGrange Elijah, laborer, h Owego. 
Lake Augustus, (Weltonville) r 85, retired. 
Lake Ebin, r 53, resident. 

Lake George H., (Weltonville) r 85, farmer loi. 
Lamb John, (Catatonk) r 133, retired. 
Lane Bert, r 28, farmer, leases of Howard Mead 196. 
Lane George A., (Weltonville), r 74 cor. 70, farmer 50, and leases of Nancy 

Snow, of Carohne, 29. 
Lane Ceorge W., (West Candor) farmer. 
Lane Harmon S., (West Candor) r 63, laborer. 
Lane James, r 58, laborer. 

Lane James A., r 52, farmer 87, and leases of Julia Hull, of Brookton, 135. 
Lane Laraont, (Fleraingville) r 121, laborer. 
Lane Levi, (Weltoaville) r 74 cor 70, farmer. 
Lane Stephen, (Strait's Corners) r 140, farmer 53. 
Lane Walter, r 116, farmer 64. 
Lanphier David H., r 37, lumberman and farmer 20. 
Lanphier William H., (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 112. 
LARCOM ADELBERT D., r 54, farmer 53. 
Larcom Julian C, r 54, farmer. 
Larkin Hugh, (Catatonk) off r 114, farmer 210. 
Leach William S., (Weltonville) r 84, farmer 74. 
Legg Bert E., (Jenksville), r 46, farmer 30. 
Legg David J., (Jenksville), r 49» farmer 30. 

STARKET & ■WINXBaS, promptly fill OTall and Telephone Orders. 



68 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Legg George W., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13 cor. 14, farmer 107. 

Legg Leonard C, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer 180. 

Legg OttoL., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13 cor. 14, farmer. 

Legg Stillman J., shoemaker, Main, h Kinney. 

Leet Julius C, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, carpenter. 

Leet Samuel, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) carpenter and leader of Leets' or- 
chestra, farmer 50. 

Leonard Richard, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 5^, farmer 50. 

Lewis John A., r 95, sewing machine agt. 

Lewis Theodore H., carpenter and farmer 56, h Owego. 

Lewis Thomas N., r 63 cor. 64, far.-ner 88. 

Lisk William P., laborer, h R. R. ave. 

Little Charles E., r 116, farmer 82. 

Little Mary E., dressmaker, h Preston. 

Little Mattie, teacher, h Preston. 

Little Nettie, teacher, h Preston. 

Little Thomas B., r 116, farmer 70. 

Little William L., lumber and bark. Main, h do. 

Locey Charles E., music teacher, bds. Owego. 

Locey Isaac B., retired merchanic, h Main. 

Logan Thomas, r 102, engineer and farmer 70. 

Loring Horace W., r 56, farmer 10. 

LOUNSBURY DANIEL, r in, farmer 193. 

Lovejoy Aaron, farm laborer, h Owego. 

Lovejoy George W., r 45, farmer 130. 

Lovejoy Jerome, r 38J, farmer 65. 

Lovejoy Lucy A., widow Josiah, seamstress, h Foundry. 

LOVEJOY LYMAN B., laborer, h Main. 

LOVEJOY WILLARD A., tanner, h Royal. 

Lyme Henry, r 58, farmer, leases of Mrs. N. Gridley 151. 

Lynch Fred, farm laborer, bds. R. R. ave. 

Lynch Ira, contractor and builder, h Royal. 

Lynch Nathaniel, farmer, h Main. 

Lynch Sylvester D., resident, h R. R. ave. 

Manley Joseph N., (Strait's Corners) r 141, farmer, works for John Manley of 
Danby 100. 

Manning Charles F., (South Danby, Tomp. Co.) r 31, farmer 50. 

Manning Robert P., (South Danby, Tomp. Co.) r 31, carpenter, and farmer 72. 

Markle David, r 91, brick and plaster mason, and farmer, works for Lucy 
Chidsey 22. 

Markle Fred C, r gt, bricklayer. 

MASTEN GEORGE W., apiarist 80 colonies, and farmer 50. 

Masten G. Wallace, farmer, leases of Simon Van Luven 116. 

Masten J. Willis, t iig, farmer 50. 

Mayo Charles H., (Willseyville) r 30, section hand. 

Mayo Hanford, r 56, laborer. 

Mayo Hiram, r 29, saw and shingle-mill, and farmer 50. 

Mccarty & Thompson, (J. W. McC. & J. T.) general merchants, 
Main cor. Mill. 

Mccarty JOHN W., (McCarty & Thompson) h Main. 

McCoy Edwin, (Jenksville) r 49, dealer in live stock, and farmer 115. 

McCully George, r 29, laborer. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. tCf^ 

Mclntire Charles F., (Catatonk) r 134, farmer, leases of S. Sacket of Towanda. 

Pa., 36. 
Mclntyre Frank, r 91, well-boring, and farmer 50. 
Mclntyre John J., 116, farmer 30. 
Mclntyre William, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer 25. 
McPhalan John, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 50. 
Mead Alanson, (Weltonville) r 85, farmer 75. 
Mead Amzi, (Weltonville) laborer. 
MEAD ASA E., r 70, fruit grower, and farmer 100. 
MEAD CHARLES, (Weltonville) r 75, dry goods, groceries, boots and 

shoes, tobacco, patent medicines, and farmer 80. 
Mead David P., retired wagon-maker, h Spencer. 
Mead Ebin H., (Jenksville) r 78, farmer 62. 
Mead Edward, (Flemingville) r 119, farmer 100. 
Mead Ezekiel, (Flemingville) r 119, farmer 160. 
Mead Fayette, (Weltonville) r 76, farmer. 
Mead John G., emp. W. J. Milks, h Bank. 
Mead Josephus, farmer, h Owego. 
Mead Joshua E., (Flemingville) r 119, retired. 
Mead Mileden, (West Newark) r 81, farmer 113. 
Mead Milton, (West Newark) r 81, laborer. 

Mead Nathan, (Catatonk) offr 126, farmer, leases of Roba R. Howard 118. 
Mead Newton T., (Weltonville) r 45, farmer 55. 
Mead Russel B., (Jenksville) r 49, farmer. 
Mead Russel J., (Weltonville) r 76, carpenter, and farmer 120. 
MEAD WILLIS A., r 70, with Sidney and G. F. Galpin, steam threshing 

machine, hay pressing and sawing. 
Meddaugh Preston, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer, leases of L. C. 

Leonard 180. 
Meier Frederick, r 42, farmer 45. 
Merchant Gideon, r 37, sawyer, and overseer of George B. Pumpelly steam 

saw-mill. 
Merchant Gideon, (Willseyville) r 32, carpenter. 
Mericle Henry, farmer 91, h Main. 

Merrick Abner, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, mason, and farmer 90. 
Merrill Ann E:, ( VVillsey ville) widow M. Nelson, station and express agent. 
Merrill Nellie, (Willseyville) telegraph operator. 
Me.ritt Abram, r 69, farmer 23. 
Middaugh Asa, (Strait's Corners) r 105, farmer 60. 
Milks George, clerk Ashland House, bds. do. 

MILKS William J,, veterinary surgeon, and meat market, Spencer, h do. 
MILLER AUGUSTINE, (Weltonville) r 120, farmer 90. 
Miller Fred, (Weltonville) r 120, dealer in live stock, and farmer. 
Miller Daniel S., physician and surgeon. Main, h do. 
Minor Christopher C, (Willseyville) r 30, general store. 
Mix Emory C, (Willseyville) r 30, postmaster, and blacksmith. 
Mix John C, (Willseyville) r i, prop, threshing-machine, and farmer 74. 
Mix Miles C, (Willseyville) r 30, blacksmith, and farmer 9. 
Monell Samuel, (Willseyville) r 1, farmer 14. 
Mooney Burt, tanner, h Church. 
Mooney Esther, widow Thomas, h Church. 
Moore Betsey D., widow John R., resident, h Church. 
Moore Oscar, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 14, farmer 62. 



70 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



MOREY ARCHIE E., 71, apiarist 90 colonies, and carpenter. 
Morey Benjamin S., saloon and restaurant, and farmer 50, Main, h do. 
MOREY EDWARD A., r 71, farmer 66. 
Morrison James, r 88, farmer 32. 
Morrison Wesley, r 116, farmer 25. 
Munroe Henry, r 63, farmer 170. 
Munroe James, r 63, farmer 140. 
Munroe John H., (Willseyville) r i, laborer. 
' Munroe Joshua, r 63, farmer. 
Mustoe Martin, r 69, farmer 46. 
Nelson Asa, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer 50. 
Nelson Elmore, (West Candor) r 59, farmer. 
Nelson Nathaniel, (Strait's Corners) off r 139, farmer. 
Nelson Orville, r 24, farmer 120. 
Newman Alonzo M., (Jenksville) r 78, farmer 130. 
Newman James, (Jenksville) r 50, farmer 133. 
Newman William T., (Flemingville) r 123, farmer in Owego 22. 
Neuse James W., laborer, h Church. 

Nickerson Lucy E., widow Amos, seamstress, h R. R. ave. 
North James E., manuf. washing-machines and clothes wringers, h Main. 
NORTON FRANK J., prop. Ashland House, Mam. 
O'Brien Thomas, (Willse)rville) r 30, saloon and groceries. 
O'Connell Daniel, (Catatonk) fireman for National Transit Co. 
Oldfield Joel, r 102, farmer. 
Oliver Allen D., r 40, fireman, and farmer 5. 
Oltz Deborah, widow Henry, resident, h Pond. 
Oltz Frances A., resident, bds. Pond. 
Orcutt David, r 95, carpenter, and farmer 12. 
Orcutt Elizabeth, (Catatonk) r 115, widow James E., farm 55. 
Orcutt WiUiara C., gunsmith, clock and watch repairer and general jobbing, 

Owego, h do. 
Ormsby Robert L., farm laborer, h Foundry. 
Osborn Arthur, r 116, physician, M. E. clergyman and farmer 50. 
Osburn William V., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, apiarist 100 colonies, 

carpenter, wagon repairing and farmer 25. 
Ott George, (Catatonk) r 135, farmer 100. 

OWEN ABEL C, (Strait's Corners) r 109, carpenter and farmer 95. 
Owen Christopher, (Catatonk) r 130, farmer 76. 
Owen George B., (Strait's Corners) r 108, farmer 50. 
Owen Jerome D., r 114, farmer to8. 
Owen William, r 29, general merchant and farmer 32. 
Palmatier Charles W., emp. Hulmboldf tannery, h Humiston. 
PARMELE FREDERICK, retired, h Main. 
Parmele John C, justice of the peace. Main, h Owego. 
Palmer George W., (Jenksville) r 20, farmer with J. D. 180. 
Palmer Jasper, laborer. 

Palmer John D., (Jenksville) r 20, farmer with G. W. 180. 
Parsons M. Eva, teacher, bds. Owego. 
Parsons Minnie R., teacher, bds. Owego. 
Parsons William A., traveling salesman, h Owego. 
Pass Peter, (Strait's Corners) r 108, farmer with Thomas W. 160. 
Pass Thomas W., (Strait's Corners),r 108, farmer with Peter 160. 
Patterson John, (Willseyville) r i, section hand. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Payne William J., clerk. 

■Pealing Lanis F., farm laborer, h Owego. 

Pearse Charles, r 29, farmer 5. 

Perham Harlow C, wagon maker, h Church. 

Perrine Daniel H., (Catatonk)r 134, brick and plaster mason and farmer 183. 

Perrine Henry, (Catatonk) r 134, farmer, leases of P. Caple 100. 

Perrine Joseph, (Strait's Corners) r 136, farmer 50. 

Perry Elizabeth, widow Solomon, h Main. 

Perry Emmet J., (Willseyville) r i, farmer, leases of H. Durfee 40. 

Personeus Chester, (Willseyville) r 1, farmer 80. 

Personeus Cornelius B., r 116, tin peddler. 

Personeus Erwin, r 28, farmer 62. 

Personeus Ezra C, r 58, farmer, works for Charles Hill, of Danby, i8o. 

Personeus Ira, r 28, farmer 155. 

Pesoneus Lucy, widow Chauncey, laundress, h Main. 

PETERS CHARLES G., t 65, dealer in live stock and breeder of fine road 
horses and Jersey cattle, farmer 200. * 

Peters Richard, carpenter. 

Phelps Asa, (Flemingville) r 121, farmer 97. 

Phelps Herrick J., (Flemingville) r 121, farmer, leases of Jesse Phelps 100. 

Phelps Sheldon, (Flemingville) r 121, farmer. 

Phelps Samuel, (Weltonville) r 120, farmer, leases of Eliza Brink 100. 

Pierce Albert, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r s|-, farmer 70. 

Palmatier John, emp. Woolen mills, h Mountain ave. 

Pompelly George, prop, of saw-mill at Gridleyville, h Main. 

Potter Henry P., farmer 100, h Spencer. 

Potter Mary, widow Harvey, resident, Spencer. 

Pultz Luther, (Owego) r 131, farmer 128. 

Quick Fremont, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 13, farmer 25: 

Quick Henry, (Catatonk), r 127, dairy 15 cows, farmer 112^. 

Quick Philip E., (Catatonk) r 127, farmer. 

QUIMBY ELMER E., blacksmith ; special attention given to horse-shoe- 
ing, Owego, h do. 

Quinn James, (Catatonk) r 133, tanner. 

Quinn James, Jr., (Catatonk) r 133, leather finisher. 

Quinn John, (Catatonk) r 133, tanner. 

Quinn Thomas, (Catatonk) r 133, leather finisher. 

Reasor James B., r 44, cooper and farmer 30. 

Reese Henry E., (Weltonville) r 120, farmer. 

Reynolds Franklin H., r 96, tin peddler.' 

Rice Heman, r 29, farmer 6. 

Rice Lorenzo, r 29, farmer 79. 

Rice Lorenzo A., (Catatonk) r 114, farmer, leases of J. M. Anderson 100. 

Richardson Charles, (West Newark) r 80, farmer, works for Horace 150. 

Richardson Henry H., (West Newark) r 49, farmer 90. 

RICHARDSON HORACE, (West Newark) r 80, farmer 150. 

Richardson Jerome, restaurant and farmer 63, Main, h Owego. 

Riggs Oliver P., retired, h Owego. 

Rightmire Cornelius S., (West Candor) r 59, laborer. 

Roach Benny, laborer, h Humiston. 

Robberts James E., laborer, h Young. 

ROBBINS JOHN K, r 42, farmer 82. 

ROBINSON ALDICE A., fire and life insurance. Main, h do. 



72 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Robinson Charles, (West Candor) r 59, farmer 30. 

Robinson Edward J., (West Candor) r 59, farmer 50. 

Robinson Harrison, (West Candor) r 59, farmer. 

Robinson Luther B., painter and farmer. 

Robinson Maria, r. iij6, widow Seraour, h and lot. 

Robinson Murtillow A., carpenter, h Foundry. 

Robinson Philander, retired, b Main. 

Rockwell Rufus, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer 120. 

Roe Emory D., r .63, farmer, leases of Irving Hart, of Waverly, 100. 

ROE EUGENE F., r 5, apiarist and manuf. and dealer in apiarist supplies. 

Roe Gamaliel, r 5, steam feed-mill and threshing machine, and farmer 140. 

Roe George F., farm laborer, bds. Pond. 

Roe Horace M.,. r 5, farmer. 

Roe William F., r 25, apiarist, 115 colonies, and manuf. and dealer in api- 
arist supplies, carpenter and farmer 109. 

Rolfe James K„ r 88, farmer 50. 

ROPER WILLIAM E., physician and surgeon, h Owego. 

Rose Jacob P., laborer, h Main. 

Rose Rodney S. Rev., retired M. E. Clergyman. 

ROSS EDGAR, D., r 58, farmer 100. 

Ross Edmund, (Strait's Corners) r 141, farmer 44. 

Ross Frank, (M. L. Ross & Son) h Spencer. 

Ross Harry, (Willseyville) r 3, farmer 230. 

Ross Lester Z., r 58, farmer 163. 

Ross Milton L., (M.,L. Ross & Son) also commercial traveler, also farmer 
54. h Spencer. 

Ross M. L. & Son, (Frank) druggists, Main. 

Rowe Henry R. , (Catatonk) r 133, telegrap]* operator for National Transit Co. 

Royal Morris B., insurance and farmer 30, h Owego. 

Ryan John, (Catatonk) r 133, laborer. 

RYAN JOHN, lumber and hides. Mill, h Main. 

Sabin Edgar D., r 65, farmer with M. E. Cowles, of Spencer, 125. 

Sackett Lucy, widow Nathaniel L., resident, h Owego. 

Sackett Mary, dressmaker, h Owego. 

Sackett Nathaniel O., retired, h Main. 

Sanford Harmon, (Willseyville) r i cor. 31, farmer, leases of Lewis Grif- 
fin 107. 

Sarson John, (Willseyville) r 3, farmer 137. 

Sarson John C. F., (Willseyville) r 3, house-painter. 

Sarson Samuel T., (Willseyville) r 3, carpenter. 

Sarson Thomas E., (Willseyville) r 3, works for John Sarson 137. 

Sawyer Frank, (West Candor) r 61, deputy-postmaster, and farmer 46. 

Sawyer Fred W., emp. D. L.& W. R. R., h Railroad. 

Sawyer Ira, (West Candor) r 62, farmer 123. 

Sawyer Luther, (West Candor) r 62, general merchant. 

Scharf George W,, tinsmith, h Preston. 

Scofield Clarence H., r 63, well drilling. 

Scofield Truman, (West Candor) r 62, dealer in live stock, and farmer 82. 

Schooley Edmund, r 6, farmer 100. 

Scott Elbert O., att'y and counselor at law. Main, bds. Allen House. 

Seaman Joel, r 116, dealer in sheep and cattle, farmer 60. 

SEAMAN LE GRAND, r 89, dealer in live stock, and farmer 75, and works 
for Amanda- Gosen 80. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 73 



.Searles George M., carriage and sleigh manufactory, Main, h Railroad. 
Sewell John, (Weltonville) r 78, carpenter, and farmer 55, and saw-mill with 

R. Fuller and Julia Hull. 
Shaffer Joseph, (Catatonk) r 133, farmer with Wesley 50. 
Shaffer Wesley, (Catatonk) r 133, farmer with Joseph 50. 
Shaler Frederick, r 95, laborer. 
Shaw James, (Fleraingville) r 1 23^ laborer. 
Sheerer John D., peddler, h Church. 
Sherman Elisha J., r 114, farmer 37. 
Sherman James, laborer, h Mountain ave. 
Shipman Charles, (Strait's Corners) r 109, farmer 70. 
Shulenburg Alvin, r 113, farmer 30. 
Shulenburg Fred J., (West Candor) r 105, dairy 18 cows, farmer 57, and 

leases of S. E. Gridley 250. 
Shulenburg Horace, (West Candor) r 105, farmer. 
Shulenburg James, r 56, farmer 100. 
Silvernail Hiram, (Strait's Corners) r 139, resident. 
•Silvernail John, (Strait's Corners) r 139, farmer 79. 
Simmons Edward, laborer, h Humiston. 
Simpson Franklin, (Willseyville) r 4, farmer 50. 
Slate Alfonzo, (West Candor) r 59, farmer. 
Slate Francis, r 58, laborer. 

Slate Nelson, (Jenksville) r 49, farmer, works estate of Arnold Blanchard 90. 
Slater Bartholomew G., farmer on shares with Peter Carr 85, h Owego. 
Slater Harry, clerk, h Owego. 
Slawson James G., blacksmith, Foundry, h do. 
Smith Alanson J., r 53, farmer 100. 
Smith Angeline C, widow Jesse A., resident, bds. Owego. 
Smith Charles S., saloon, Main, bds. Railroad. 
Smith Clarissa Mrs., resident, h Mountain ave. 
Smith Edgar M., farmer 50. 

Smith Fred W., ass't cashier First Nat. Bank, h Main. 
Smith H. Alanson, (Catatonk) r 133, postmaster, station agent, and general 

merchant. 
Smith Hannah M., (Catatonk) r 127, widow Alanson Smith, farm 27. 
Smith Henry, school director, lumberman, and farmer 160, h Owego. 
Smith James, (Willseyville) r i, farmer 15. 

Smith James J., (Catatonk) r 115, farmer, works for Emma Smith 13. 
SMITH J. LEWIS, deputy postmaster and town clerk, h Owego. 
Smith John J., carpenter and farmer 17, and with Lucius H. 35. 
Smith Judson, r 37, laborer. 
Smith Lewis W., (Catatonk) r 127, laborer. 
Smith L. Everett, r 95, brakeman. 
Smith Lavelle, r37, carpenter. 
Smith Lucius H., r 95, carpenter and builder. 
Smith Mantlebert H., farmer with his father Edgar M., 50. 
Smith Nelson, (Willseyville) r i, laborer. 
Smith Wakeman B., farmer 218, h Main. 
Smith William, farm laborer, h Owego. 
Smith William B., druggist, bds. Main. 
Smith William R., r 37, carpenter. 
SmuUen George B., (Weltonville) r 20, blacksmith. 
SrauUen Patrick, (Weltonville) r 120, blacksmith. 



74 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Snover John F., r 64, farmer 90. 

Snow Roswell, (Caroline Center, Tomp. Co.) r 10, farmer. 

Snow Walstein, (Caroline Center, Tomp. Co.) r 10, farmer 161. 

Snow William H., r 39, farmer 60. 

Snyder Benjamin C, r 13, farmer 141. 

Snyder Dewitt M., (Willseyville) r 1, saw and'cider-mill and farmer 126. 

Snyder Lewis H., laborer, h Mountain ave. 

Snyder Samuel, r 56, resident. 

Snyder William H., r 56, foreman E. C. & N. R. R. 

Spaulding Alonzo, r 9, farmer 90. 

SPAULDING URBON P., fire and life insurance, and loan and investment 
and real estate. Main, h Kinney. 

Speers Joel W.-, (Willseyville) r 30, farmer 8 and leases of Amanda Willsey 175. 

Spellman Michael, (Catatonic) r iii;, farmer 36. 

Southwick Aaron B., (Strait's Corners) r T40, farmer 104. 

Stafford Horace- G., (Owego) r 131, farmer 52. 

Stafford Randolph, (Strait's Corners) r 137, farmer, leases of Arba Camp- 
bell, of Owego, 160. 

Starks James O., off r 6, farmer with John 65. 

Starks John, off r 6, farmer with J. O. 65. 

Starkweather Charles, r 28, farmer 67. 

Starkweather Joel, millwright and carpenter, h Pond. 

Starkweather Lewis S > resident, bds. Pond. 

Stevens Andrew T., (Willseyville) r 3, painter and farmer 26. 

Stevens David, r 29, farmer 25. 

Stevens Delia, r 32, wife of John, farm with Mary J. Southwick, of Halsey 
Valley, 163. 

Stevens George, (Willseyville) r i,. farmer, leases of David Stevens 30. 

Stevens James M., (Willseyville) r i, basket-maker and farmer 25. 

Stevens John, r 32, farmer, works for Delia Stevens 81^, and leases of Mary 
J. Southwick, of. Halsey Valley, 81 1-2. 

Stevens Lafayette, r 29, laborer. 

Stevens Loren, (Willseyville) r i, fireman. 

Stevens Wilber, off r 36, farmer 25. 

Stever Frank, (Jenksville) r 49, laborer. 

Stewart Adelbert, r 70, farmer 20. 

Stewart Augustus, barber, bds. Railroad. 

Stewart Charles, barber. Main, h Railroad. 

Stewart Henry B., tin-peddler, h Hulmboldt. 

Stinard Abigail D., widow Oglesbary, resident, h Pond. 

STINARD ALANSON K., (Jenksville) r 49, farmer 26. 

Stinard Andrew, laborer, h off Owego. 

Stinard Sylvester, (Jenksville) r 50, breeder and trainer of horses, proprietor 
of stock hor-se Prince, and farmer, leases of J. W. McCarty 244. 

Stone Charles E., r 41, farmer. 

Stone Eli, (Willseyville) laborer. 

Stone Nelson, r 95, leases of the heirs of Geo. Andrews 143. 

STOWELL ALMOND F:, contractor and builder. Railroad, h do. 

Strait Adelbert, (Willseyville) farmer, leases of Lewis Griffin 185. 

Strait Henry, r 73, farmer 26. 

Strait Sylvester, (Strait's Corners) offr 139, farmer, leases of Wm. Harlan 130 

STRONG ANSON B., r 45, farmer 13, works for Hebron Strong 50 and for 
Orange Johnson 44. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. 75 



Strong Charles S., r 24, farmer 133. 

Strong Eugene B., (Willseyville) r 3, assessor, manuftr. of tubs, firkins, etc., 
and farmer 75. 

Strong Hebron, r 45, farmer 50. 

Strong Joel H., r 98, dealer in wool, hides, pelts and produce. 

Strong Josiah C., r 41, farmer 40. 

Strong Manley, (Jenksville) r 50, laborer. 

Strong Raymond, r 98, lumberman. 

Sturdevant Judson, r 119, farmer 5. 

Swartwood Edmund, (Strait's Corners) r 143, farmer, leases of Alfred Eve- 
lien, of Tioga, 82. 

Sweetman Joanna, widow David, resident, h Owego. 

Tacey Alexander, carpenter, h Church. 

Tacey Melvin, laborer, h Church. 

Taylor Abram, (West Newark) r 81, farmer 437. 

Taylor Eugene C., (Weltonville) r 86, farmer 33. 

Taylor Martin W., (West Candor) r 109, farmer 82. 

Taylor Merton L,., (Weltonville) r 86, farmer 50. 

Taylor Samuel E., (Weltonville) r 86. farmer 84. 

Taylor Walter, r 12, farmer, leases of J. S. Whitney 239. 

Taylor William J., (West Newark) r 8t, farmer. 

Taylor William J., (Weltonville) r 86, teacher, apiarist 50 colonies, farmer, 
leases of Samuel Taylor 84. 

Templeton Albert J., tinsmith, h Foundry. 

Terwilliar Abigail J., (Owego) r 118, widow of Nathan, leases of Franklin 
W. Truman, of Owego, 200. 

Terwilliger Andrew J., (Strait's Corners) r in, prop. English coach stock 
horse, Tim Valons, farmer 136. 

Terwilliger Levi G., (Catatonk) r 133, musician and sawyer. 

Terwilligar Solomon E., (Catatonk) r 133, blacksmith. 

Terwilliger Stephen E., (Strait's Corners) r 109, farmer. 

Thayer John B., (South Danby, Tomp. Co.) r 34, farmer with William H. 

Thayer William H., (South Danby, Tomp. Co.) r 34, farmer, leases of Mar- 
vin Reed, of Ithaca, 140, and of Eleanor Dewitt, of Danby, 62. 

Thomas George H., (Weltonville) r 8r, farmer 80. 

Thompson Anthony H., r 38, farmer 41. 

THOMPSON JEROME, (McCarty & Thompson) cashier. First Nat. Bank, 
also farmer in Spencer 420, h Main. 

Thornton James J., r 93, basket-maker. 

Throop William, r 35, farmer 33. 

Tidd Francis T., farm laborer, h Foundry. 

Tidd Mary E., laundress, h Foundry. 

Toft George, (Catatonk) r 114, farmer 4, works for Elizabeth Orcott 55. 

Townley Mary J., widow James L., resident, h Owego. 

Townley Reid W., farmer, h Owego. 

Tracy Maria E., (Catatonk) r 133, widow James, resident. 

Truman Lyman R, (Owego) r 132, farmer 130. 

Tubbs Charles N., r 41, carpenter and with Ebenezer, farmer 25^. 

Tubbs Ebenezer, r 41, carpenter, and farmer with Charles N., 25^. 

Tubbs Isaac, r 41, tin-peddlar, and farmer 6 r. 

Tubbs J. Thomas, tin-peddler, h Main. 

Tubbs OrlandOj r 69, farmer 20. 

Tucker Charles E., r 29, farmer. 



76 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Tucker Frank, (Willseyville) r 30, laborer. 

Tucker Matthew, (Willseyville) r 30, laborer. 

Tucker Williain, r 29, farmer 108. 

Turk John, retired, h Owego. 

Turk Levi, carpenter, h R. R. ave. 

TURNER GEORGE, (Strait's Corners) r 143, carpenter, and farmer 103. 

Tuttle Warren H., 104, farmer 75. 

Tyler Charles, ofFr 88, farmer 37. 

Tyler Edward, r 119, laborer. 

Tyler James, off r 88, farmer. 

Ulrick Henry W., r 25, farmer, leases of John Ulrick, of Tioga, 161. 

VanDebogart Francis, retired, b Church. 

VanDebogart Frank L., general merchant, Main, h do. 

Van Debogart Lawrence, (Willseyville) r 30, carpenter, and farmer too. 

Van Debogart Peter, dealer in agl. implements. Main, h do. 

VanDeerveer Warren C, (Strait's Corners) r 142, farmer no. 

Van Dermark Joseph, r 65, farmer. 

Van Dermark Peter, laborer, h Main. 

Van Dermark Wayland L., r 65, farmer 37. 

Van Dermark Wilson, r 23, farmer, leases of Morgan White 156. 

VAN DEUSER H. & M., (Catatonk) r 133, proprietors saw-mill, also deal- 
ers in lumber and potatoes, and farmer 47. 

VAN DEUSER HENRY, (Catatonk) (H. & M. Van D.) r 133. 

VAN DEUSER JERRY, (Catatonk) (H. & M. Van D.) farmer 5. 

VAN DEUSER MARTIN, (Catatonk) (H. & M. Van D.) r 133. 

VanEtten George, r 5, refused to give information. 

VanEtten George F., r 29, farmer 60. 

Vanglone Schuyler, (Jenksville) r 13, farmer. 

VanGorder Charles E., peddler, h R. R. ave. 

VanGorder Elias, (Weltonville) r 82, laborer. 

VanKleeck James, retired, h Owego. 

VanKleeck Jane, r 36, wife of Charles H., farm 106. 

VanKleeck John M., r 36, farmer. 

VanLuven Simon, justice of the peace, Main, h Owego. 

VanLuven Robert, (Strait's Corners) r 137, farmer 48. 

VanPelt Sarah, widow Garrett, resident, h Owego. 

VanScoy Augusta, r 40, widow Knowlton, farm 130. 

VAN SCOY BURT R., r 70, fruit grower, and farmer to8. 

VAN SCOY ISAAC D., (Jenksville) r 50, farmer 108. 

VanScoy Simeon, r 40, farmer, works for Augusta VanScoy 130. 

VanVleet Theodore, lumber dealer. Main, h do. 

VanWoert Lebbeus, r 56, laborer. 

VanWoert Levi, (West Candor) r 59, farmer 90. 

VanWoert R. Smith, farmer, h Main. 

VanZyle Stephen, r 69, farmer 10. 

Vergason George, (Strait's Corners) r 140, wool buyer, and farmer 93. 

VERGASON IDDO. prop. Allen House, Main. 

VERGASON SOLOMON, r n2 cor. 114, manuf. and dealer in lumber, 
dairy 18 cows, and farmer 620. 

Vergason Stephen, (Strait's Corners) r 142, farmer 125. 

VOSE ENOCH, (West Candor) r 108, contractor and builder, also farmer. 

Vorce Volney, (Weltonville) farmer 72. 

Wake James, r 67, farmer. 



TOWN OF CANDOR. J-j 



Walker John, laborer, h Owego. 

Walts Conrad, (Strait's Corners) r .109, farmer 80. 

Ward and VanVleet Misses, (Elmira A Ward and Eva D. VanVleet) dealers 
in millinery and fancy goods. 

WARD HARVEY H., farmer 75, h Owego. 

Ward Hiram, farmer 75. 

Ward Oscar, farmer. 

Ward Oswald J., live stock dealer, h Owego. 

Wardwell & Cooper, (West Candor) (William C. and J. H.) r 62, groceries. 

Wardwell William R., drug clerk, bds. Main. 

Warner John C, r 93, farmer, works for Minda Warner 45. 

Warner Richard E., r 44, farmer with Shelden P., leases of R. P. Warner 254 . 

Warner Richard P., r 44, farmer 254. 

Warner Shelden P., r 44, farmer with Richard E., leases of R. P. Warner 254. 

Watkins Ephraim C., (Flemigville) laborer. 

Watrous Sherman, farm laborer, h Foundry. 

Watson James, resident, h Owego. 

Webster Edwin, (Owego) r 132, dealer in live stock, and farmer 275. 

Wentnorth John W., farm laborer, h Church. 

Wentworth Noyes D., paintier, h Church. 

Wheeler Abram T., cider-mill and farmer 33. 

Wheeler Charles T., (Owego) r 124, farmer 86. 

Wheeler Frank G., (Owego) r 124, farmer. 

Wheeler Ira E., r 63, farmer. 

Wheeler John H., farmer, h Railroad ave. 

Wheeler Mary, r 41, widow Lewis, farm 59. 

Wheeler Myron F., r 41, farmer. 

Whipple Marietta R., widow Solomon, resident, h Owego. 

White Abram, (Strait's Corners), r 141, farmer 70. 

WHITE A. FRANK, (WiUseyviUe) (White Bros.) 

WHITE BROS., (WiUseyviUe) (A. Frank, Charles O. and Edward M.) r 30, 
manufacturers of White's patent bent chairs and patent folding tables. 

White Charles B., (WiUseyviUe) r i, farmer 300. 

WHITE CHARLES O., (WiUseyviUe) (White Bros.) r 30, commercial trav- 
eler. 

WHITE EDWARD M., (WiUseyviUe) (White Bros.) r i. 

White Jacob N., (Strait's Corners), r 141, farmer 50. 

White John B,, (Strait's Corners) r no, farmer 83. 

WHITE MARY A., widow Leonard, resident, h Owego. 

White Morgan A., (WiUseyviUe) groceries and manuftr. and dealer in lum- 
ber, and farmer 1,065. 

Whitley Andrew J., r 7, farmer 90. 

Whitley Demoma, (WiUseyviUe) r 30, laborer. 

WHITLEY FLORiLLA S., r 65, widow John, Jr. 

Whitley George M., r 29, farmer 28. 

WhitleyTra, r 29, farmer. 

Whitley Newton D., r 7, farmer. 

Whitley Sarah, r 28, wife of Joseph, h and lot. 

Whitley Phihp A., r 29, farmer 27. 

Whitley Warren, r 29, farmer 133. 

Whitmarsh Ambrose, (Catatonk) r 115, farmer 60. 

Whitmarsh Andrew J., r 95, laborer. 

Whitmarsh Charles, laborer. 



78 TOWN OF CANDOR. 



Wbitmarsh Eben, r ii6, dairy ii cows, and farmer g6. 
Whitmarsh Edward, (Catatonk; r' 129, farmer 200. 
Whitmaish Edwin, (Catatonk) r 129, farmer 59. 
Whitmarsh James, r 116, resident, age 87. 
Whitmarsh John, (Catatonk) r 115, farrher. 

Whitmarsh Luther, (Catatonk) r 129, farmer. 

Whitmarsh Robert L., (Catatonk) r 134, farmer 100. 

Whitmarsh Simon, (Catatonk) r 129, farmer. 

Whitney George, r 71, laborer. 

Whitney Joseph S., live stock dealer and farmer 230, h Raihroad. 

Whitney Martin D., r 88, agt. for Auburn Art Union Co. 

Whitney Perry B., r 56, farmer 50. 

Wiest George A., (West Newark) r 77, farmer, leases of Abram Taylor 270. 

Wilber William H., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 18, farmer 100. 

Willard Lewis D., speculator, and farmer 40. 

Williston Horace, Rev., pastor M. E. church, h Owego. 

Williams Enoch S., (Booth & Williams) h Main. 

Williams Ezra O., teamster, h Qwego. 

Williams George F. (Catatonk) r 126, farmer 50. 

Williams George R., r 40, farmer, leases of Henry Merikle 97. 

Williams LaFayette, (Catatonk) r 1 26, farmer 90. 

Williams William I., (Catatonk) r 116, farmer 93. 

Willsey Gaylord, retired, h Spencer. 

Willsey Harriet A., (Willseyville) r 30, widow of William W., farm 175. 

Willsey Margerite M., widow Warren, resident, h Spencer. 

Willsey Martin E., farmer, h Bank. 

Wilson Ephraim J., farmer 5. 

Wilson William H., laborer. 

Winfield Simon, (Strait's Corners) r 139, fa,rm,er. 

Woodard Elias H., (Weltonville) r 82, blacksmith. 

Woodard Mary G , (Weltonville) r 82, wife of E. H., dealer in groceries and 
provisions. 

WOODFORD ALBERT H., r 63, farmer 160. 

Woodford Asel H., (West Candor) r 62, farmer 10, and with Charles Wood- 
ford 58. 

Woodford Chauncey C, farmer 97, h Owego. 

Woodford Edwin F., r 63, farmer. 

Woodford Edward G., (West Candor) r 63, farmer. 

Woodford E. Jerome, (West Candor) r 62, agriculural implements, and' 
farmer with Elbert C. 150. 

Woodford Elbert C, (West Candor) r 62, carpenter, farmer, E. Jerome, 150, 

Woodford Frank S.,r 56, farmer with Sylvester 100. 

WOODFORD GEORGE, (West Candor) r 62, farmer 220. 

Woodford Myron L., (West Candor) r 63, farmer 156. 

Woodford Rhoda, r 56, widow Luther, farm 125. 

WOODFORD SYLVSTER, r 56, farmer with F. S. Woodford 100. 

Wool Joseph D., (Willseyville) r 3, justice of the peace, and farmer 12. 

Wolverton Charles A., (Owego) r 131, cooper. 

Wright Calvin, (West Candor) r 109, farmer 57. 

Wright Charles H,, r iii, farmer 135. 

Wright Edwin J., r 11 r, farmer. 

Wright John, retired, h Kinney. 

STARKE V dc liTINTERS, Wholesale and Retail Drngglsts, Owego^ 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 79 

Wright Leroy, (Strait's Corners) r 109, farmer lo. 

Wright William A., r 37, farmer 60, and works for the heirs of Sterling J. 

Barber 97. 
Young David, (Jenksville) farmer 85. 
Zimmer Alvah, (West Candor) r 61, laborer. 
Zimmer Ira, (Jenksville) r 47, farmer 125. 



NEWARK VALLEY. 

{For explanHtions, etc., see page 3, part second.) 

(Postoffice address is Newark Valley, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Abbey Reuben, r i6, carpenter. 

Abbott George, (Howlan & Abbott) h Mill. 

Ackerman Cornelius R., (Jenksville) contractor and builder, and farmer 40. 

ACKERMAN JOSEPH, r 21, district collector and farmer 125. 

Allen Charles W., (Jenksville) off r i, retired. 

Allen James, r 16, retired. 

ALLEN JAMES H., Jenksville) r 2, farmer on shares with F. W. Rich- 
ardson, 200. 

Ames Henry W., r 16, farm laborer. 

Ames Stephen W, r 18, farmer 100. 

Ames William, r 6, carpenter. 

Andrews Charles F., r 9, farmer 100. 

Andrews Deborah, r 55, widow Chester, resident. 

Andrews Ezra J., r 42, farmer 52. 

Andrews Frank, r 42, teacher. 

Andrews Heman N., r 42, farmer 48. 

Andrews Jane, r g, widow Luther, farm ?oo. 

Andrews Jesse, r 42, farmer, on shares with W. Elwell, 40. 

Andrews Judson, r 42, farmer 43. 

Andrews Lucinda, r 42, widow Daniel, resident. 

Andrews Sarah, r 9, resident. 

Angell Elworth J., contractor and builder, also small fruit grower, h Whig. 

Angell Thomas, (Ketchumville) r 9, retired Methodist preacher and farmer 40. 

Arnold Frederick C, harness-maker, bds. Elm. 

Arnold Harley, r 25, farm laborer. 

Arnold James, r 25, farmer 89. 

Ashley" Frank D., clerk; h Whig.' 

Avery Samuel M., (Jenksville) r i, postmaster. 

Ayres Charles H., laborer, bds. Maple ave. 

Ayers James, cooper, h Maple ave. 

Ayers John S. , tinsmith, h Maple. 

Bailey Charles, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 26, farmer for his mother Mrs. M. 
Bailey. 

SXARKEf & WINTEBS, promptly fill Ulall and Telephone Orders. 



80 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Bailey Henry, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 26, farmer for his mother Mrs. M. 

, Bailey. 
Bailey Hiram C, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 26, farmer 125. 
Bailey Margaret, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 26, widow Amos, farmer 70. 
Baldwin Charles, r 38, farmer. 
Baldwin Royal C., r 38, farmer 10. 
Baldwin William, farmer, leases of E. Barber 22. 
Ball A. Rodney, r 5, farmer, with his son William H., 60. 
Ball Fred, emp. N. K. Waring, h Elm. 
BALL HENRY W., (Jayne & Ball) h Maple. 
Ball Margaret, widow Frank, resident, h Elm. 

Ball William H., r 5, farmer 60 on shares with his father A. Rodney. 
Ballard Addison L., laborer, h East ave. 
Ballard Andrew M., emp. tannery, h Whig. 
Ballard Ann, (Ketchumville) r 10, resident. 
Ballard George W., deputy sheriff, h Maple. 
Ballard George W. Mrs., laundress and general work, h Maple. 
Ballard Horatio, r 25^, farmer 62. 
Ballard John, r 26J, farmer 50. 
Ballard Lewis, r 26^, farmer 50. 

Barber Frederick W., emp. Donley Marble Works, h Whig. 
Barber George, r 38J, farmer 100. 
Barber Virgil C., carpenter, h Rewey ave. 
Barclay Mitchell, emp. tannery, h off East ave. 
Barnes Charles H., r 16, farmer 52. 
Barnes Lewis W., r 16, farmer. 
Barrett Holmes, retired, bds. Main. 
Barrett Monroe, (West Newark) r 22, farmer 200. 
BARROTT JOSEPHAS, (Weltonville) r 40, farmer 175. 
Barton James H., r 6, farmer 85. 
Barber William C, painter, h Maple. 
Bean Fred C, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 100. 
Becker Charles, retired, h Elm. 
Beecher Lambert, harness-maker, h Maple. 
Belcher J. Waldo, painter and paper-hanger, h Brook. 
BELCHER SIDNEY, r 40,^, lum'berman, and farmer 150. 
Belden Uriah L., blacksmith, off Water, h Whig. 
Belden William H., (West Newark) r 22, blacksmith. 
Beraent Celia, resident, bds. Whig. 
Bement Egbert, milk dealer, and farmer 75, h Whig. 
BENHAM CHARLES M., r 35, farmer for his father Martinus L, 
Benham Martinus L., r 35, book-keeper in Utica, also farm 75. 
Benton Lyman C, (Jenksville) r i, shoemaker. 

BENTON WILLIS S., (Jenksville) r i, groceries, also reporter for Owego 
Gazette and Newark Valley Herald. 
Benton Wilson, (Jenksville) r i, farmer. 
BERKLEY CHARLES E., r 53, carpenter, and farmer 43. 
Berkley Egbert D., r 53, farmer 60. 
Berkley Elizabeth, r 53, widow Charles, resident. 
Berlin David, laborer, h Dam lane. 
Bevier Daniel, farmer, bds. Whig. 
Bevier Elizabeth, widow Ralph, resident, h Whig-. 
Bieber AUie V., r 42, dressmaker. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 



Bieber Catherine, widow Henry, resident, bds. Whig. 

Bieber Philip, r 42, live stock dealer, and farmer j-i. 

BIEBER ROMAINE F., lawyer. Water, h Whig. 

Billings William, farmer, bds. Main. 

BISHOP FRANCIS M., physician and surgeon, Water, h Elm. 

Bishop Lament, carpenter, h Water. 

Bishop Lewis D., carpenter, h Water. 

Blewer Adelaide, r 40, widow Henry, resident. 

Blewer J. Frank, r 40, farmer 200. 

Blewer Jesse, r 40, farmer, with his mother Mary. 

Blewer Mary E., r 40, widow Charles, farm 95. 

Blewer Sarah J., r 60, widow Charles, resident. 

Borthwick Delphine, (Jenksville) r i, resident. 

BORTHWICK D JAMES, (Jenksville), r i, farmer. 

Borthwick George H., (Jenksville) r 22, assessor and farmer 50, and leases of 
D. J. Borthwick 1 1 a. 

Bowen Eugene, r 15^, farmer 50. 

Boyce J. Edgar, painter, h Maple ave. 

Boyce Henry W., retired, h Main. 

Bradley Elmina, widow Lambert, resident, bds. Main. 

Bradley Mary A., widow Lambert, h Main. 

Brick Thomas, laborer, h Moore. 

Briggs Sally, r 16, widow Salem, resident. 

Brink John J., (West Newark) r 22, farmer 90. 

Brink Peter G., (West Newark) r 22, justice of the peace, and farmer no. 

Brockway Joseph B., r 6, farmer 74^. 

Brockway Lewellyn, r 6, farmer with his father Joseph B. 

Brougham (Helen and Sarah), milliners. Water, h do. 

Brougham William, r 53, farmer 50. 

Brown Elmina, widow Amos P.i, resident, h Main. 

Brown Mary A., dressmaker, Main, bds. do. 

Brown Orpha Mrs., laundress, bds. Bridge. 

Buckley Patrick, night watchman, h Maple. 

Buffington Chauncey L., (Ketchumville) r 11, blacksmith, and farmer 25. 

BURCH & WELLS (L. S. B. and L. E. W.) saw, planing and grain thresh- 
ing mills. Main. ' 

BURCH LEVI S., (Burch & Wells) h Maple. 

Burch Mary A., resident, h Main. 

Burchard Harvey J., (Ketchumville) r 9, justice of the peace and apiasist. 

Burr William H., veterinary surgeon, bds. Whig. 

BURR WILLIAM J., physician and surgeon, office Whig, h do. 

Burroughs Cornelius S., (Clinton & Burroughs) r 9, h do. 

Bushnell Calvin, r 15, farmer 64. 

Bushnell Edwin G., (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer loi. 

Bushnell Frank G., r 15, commissioner of highways, dairy 9 cows, farmer 93. 

Bushnell Philo C, farmer for his father Calvin 64, 

Bushnell Theron H., telegraph line repairer, h Whig. 

Bushnell Zina H., retired, h John. 

Butler John, farmer 200, h Main. 

Buttles William R., retired, bds. Bridge. 

Byington Alphonso, general merchant. Main, bds. do. 

Byington Clayton, speculator, h Main. 

Byington SaviUa, widow Lawyer, resident, h Main. 



82 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

BYINGTON SHERMAN W., postmaster and meat-market, Main, h do. 

Cady Gershom, (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 16. 

Cady Luther, (Ketchumville) r 14, farmer 125. 

Caldwell William J., deputy postmaster, h Main. 

Cameron Eugene, (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 202. 

Cameron Harry A., farmer on shares with E. Saddlemire, h Main. 

Cameron John, r 41, farmer on shares with G. B. Sutton 100. 

Campbell Harrison, (West Newark) r 22, farm laborer. 

Cargill Heman, retired, bds. Main. 

Cargill Julius C, resident, bds. Bridge. 

CARGILL WILLIAM, furniture and undertaking. Main, h do. 

Carpenter Anna C, widow Joshua L., resident, h Main. 

Carty Henry J., laborer, h Main. 

Gary Thomas A., farmer 82, h Main. 

Castline Moses J., (Weltonville) r 40, farmer 35. 

Chamberlain Daniel, r 16, retired. 

CHAMBERLAIN THEODORE F., r 16, assessor and farmer 84. 

Chambers Charles, wagon-maker, Water, h do. 

Chapman Canfield, contractor and builder. 

CHAPMAN EDGAR E., hardware. Water, h Main. 

Chapman George M., contractor and builder, h Main. 

Chapman Lyman F., groceries and provisions, Water, h Main. 

Chapman Noyce P., retired, h Silk. 

Chittenden Lester, r 40^, school collector and farmer 175. 

Christensen Peter, laborer, h Whig. 

Clark Edgar, (Ketchumville) r 14, farmer 100. 

Clark Elizabeth, r 15, invalid, resides with G. M. Dickinson. 

CLARK ENOS M., r 25, bridge builder and farmer 50, and leases of L. K 

West 180. 
Cleveland John, r 56, farm laborer. 
Clifford John M., r 29, farmer 120. 

CLINTON & BURROUGHS, (R. W. C. & C. S. B.) r 9, steam saw-milL 
Clinton Alice E., clerk, bds. Elm. 
Clinton Edwin V., farmer 22, h Main. 
Clinton Emma, widow Stephen P., h Elm. 
Clinton George L., laborer, h Elm. 
CLINTON JULIAN S., r 35, farm 120. 
Clinton Henry W., retired, h Main. 
Clinton Lydia. B., r 42, widow George, resident. 
Clinton Morris D., r 42 farmer in. 

OLINTON ROYAL W., lumber dealer .and farmer, h Main. 
CHzbe Jay, clergyman, (Cong.) retired. 
Cole Edward, (Ketchumville) r 12, farmer. 
Coney Alfred T., emp. tannery, h Main. 
Coney Lewis J., laborer, h Main. 
Cook Eugene D., farm laborer, bds. Bridge. 
Cook Henry H., r 24, farmer. 
Cook Lovisa F., laundress, h Bridge. 
Cook Orson L., farm laborer, bds Bridge. 
COOLEY BENJAMIN F., boarding house and farmer 25.. 
Cooley Charles H., bridge-builder, h Silk. 
Cooley John, (Ketchumville) r 10, farmer 155. 
Cortright Angeline A., (Weltonville) r 40, resident. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 8$ 

<i;ortright Josephus M., (Weltonville) r 40, farmer 65. 
Cortright L. Elton, (West Newark) r 22, farmer 147. 
Cortright Willie N., (West Newark) r 22, farmer with his father Elton. 

Councilman Edwin W., r35, apiarist, 60 swarms, poultry raiser and farmer 40. 

COUNCILMAN JIRA F., r ig, farmer with his father Timothy S. 

Councilman Timothy S,, farmer, h Whig. 

CRONCE JOHN H., r 15, farmer 70. 

Crounse Charles G., r 24, farmer 50. 

Culver Frank, resident, h East ave. 

Curtis Isaac, farmer 6, h Main. 

Custard William, r 40, farmer 50. 

DAGGETT BARNEY, (West Newark) r 22, farmer 86. 

Dalton William, r 15^, farmer 30. 

Davem William, r 25, farmer 55. 

DAVIDGE EUNICE, (Davidge, Landfield & Co.) widow John, h Whig. 

Davidge John, resident, bds. Whig. 

DAVIDGE, LANDFIELD & CO., (S. B. D., J. B. L. and Eunice D.) sole- 
leather mnfrs.; also, lumber in Pa. and W. Va., Main. 

DAVIDGE SHERWOOD B., (Davidge, Lanfield & Co.) h Whig. 

DAVIS FRANKLIN, prop, saw-mill and farm 100 on r 25, h Whig. 

Davis John T., engineer and farmer with his fattier, Franklin, bds. Whig.. 

Davison D. Henry, (West Newark) r 22, carpenter. 

Dean Charles E., (Ketchumville) r 10, farmer. 

Dean Charles H., (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 32. 

Dean Franklin G., r 39, farmer 175. 

Decker Abram D. W., cartman, h Whig. 

Decker Abram L., laborer, h East ave. 

Decker Ira, emp. William's saw-mill, h Elm. 

Decker Joseph, stage express to Owego, h East ave. 

DeGARAMO JAMES, r 15, farmer 51. 

DeGaramo Peter, r 15, farmer 120. 

De Garamo William, r 35, farmer 58. 

DeGROAT JAMES F., r 40J, lumberman. 

Delaney James, off r 25, farm laborer. 

Delaney John, off r 25, farmer 96. 

De Laney Michael, emp. tannery, h off East ave. 

Delaney William, off r 25, farm laborer. 

Dennison Joseph H., r 5, farmer 24. 

Dickerson Austin, farmer 25, h John. 

Dickinson Lyman, r 42, farmer 60. 

Dickinson Orville, r 42, resident. 

Dickson George M., (Connecticut) r 15, farmer 52. 

DIMMICK & YOUNG, (O. D. & H.Y.) props. Diminick House, ^Iso dealers 
in coal, lime, brick and cement, and produce shippers, opp. Depot. 

DIMMICK HOUSE, Dimmick & Young, props., opp. Depot, 

DIMMICK OSSIAN, (Dimmick & Young) bds. Dimmick House. 

Dimmick Simeon L., (Ketchumville) r 11, retired Methodist minister, and 
farmer 60. 

Dingman Andrew, r 53, farm laborer. 

Dingman Ostrom, r 53, farm laborer. 

Doan Daniel, r 25, school trustee, and farmer 65. 

Dohs Daniel, retired builder, h Main. 

bohs George, furnace builder, and farmer 11. 



84 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Dbney Catherine M., r 58, teacher. 

Doney John A., r 58, farmer with his mother Saloma. 

Doney Randall, (Connecticut) r 9, emp. lumber mill. 

Doney Saloma C. Mrs. r 58, farmer 114. 

DONLEY BROS., (James G. & Robert) all kinds of granite and marble 
work, Maple, also branch at Greene, N. Y. 

DONLEY ROBERT, (Donley Bros.) h Watson. 

Dooley Catherine, widow John, resident, h East ave. 

Downey Robert, ernp. tannery, h East ave. 

Duran Mrs., resident, h Ward. 

Durfee Samantha, widow Amasa, resident, h Rewey ave. 

Duygan James, (Connecticut) r 15, farmer 50. 

Duygan John, r 15, farmer for his father James. 

Edwards Albert, stage express, Newark Valley to Whitney's Point, h East ave. 

Elwell Catharine, widow Rev. King, h Main. 

Elwell Morris, resident, h Main. 

ELWELL WILLIAM, general merchant. Main, h do. 

Fairchild SalleyA., r 24, widow Hiram Z., resident. 

Fellows Russell S. dentist. Main, h do. 

Fellows William A., carpenter, h Whig, 

Finch Charles, (Ketchnmville) postmaster, and general merchant. 

Fisk James, r 51, farm laborer. 

Fivaz Jules B., farmer 40, h Whig. 

Planagan John H., retired, h Elm. 

Elanagan Susie, dressmaker, Elm, bds. do. 

FLANAGAN WILLIAM J., foreman Donley Bros, marble works, also 
prop, orange grove in Hernando, Fla.,h Elm. 

Togle Elias E., 52, farmer. 

Fogle George F., r 51, farmer. 

Fogle Jacob, r 51, farmer 80. 

FORD ALBERT N., general mercharfi, Water, h Elm. 

T"ord Herbert, clerk, bds. Elm. 

Ford Ichabod A., farmer 83, h Main. 

TRANK CHARLES, jeweler. Water, h Whig. 

IFreeland Lyman, r 21, farmer iio. 

French Charles, r 25, farmer 31. 

French Jerry, r 25, farmer for his father Charles. 

■Gage Rilla, r 60 farmer 44. 

•GAGER ULYSSES S., r 45, farmer for Peter Settle, also dealer in Cham- 
pion drills. 

■Gale Hiram, (Ketchumville) r 9, reformed Methodist minister, and farmer 12. 

Gaskill Levi C., r 41, carpenter, and farmer 60. 

•Gates Norton S., farm laborer, h Bridge. 

Gleason George, r 39, farmer. 

•Gleazen Julia, resident, h Rewey ave. 

Gleazen Sabrina, resident, h Rewey ave. 

Golden Augustus H., (West Newark) r 22, cooper. 

Golden Prentis E., (West Newark) r 22, school trustee, and cooper. 

GOODFELLOW HEZEKIAH, r 40^, mason, and farmer 50. 

Gould Arthur J., r 15^, farmer 50. 

GOULD MELVIN J., r 4, farmer, leases of D. Sturtevant. 

Gould Thaddeus, stationary engineer, h Silk. 

Gould Warren Mrs., resident, bds. Brook. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 85 

Grenell Sherman, r 25, farmer 100. 

Griffin Hiram, r 39, farmer 105. 

Griffin Irving D., r 39, farmer with his father Hiram. 

Griner George Mrs., resident, h Elm. 

Griswold Eben, r 41, farmer 25, and 275 in Pennsylvania. 
Grummons Truman, sawyer, h Moore. 

GUYON CHARLES S., r 23, farmer 70. 

Hale Adalbert, (Maine, Broome Co.' 127, farm laborer. 

Hale Jerome H., (Connecticut) r 15, farmer, leases of Frank Ashley loo. 

Hale Simeon, r 15, farmer with his son Jerome H. 

Hall Abner G., r 19, farmer 90. 

Hall PoUey B., resident, bds. Whig. 

Hall Sheridan G., (Jenksville) r 22, constable, also shoemaker, and farmer 35. 

HAMMOND ADELBERT C, r 16, carpenter and joiner, also farmer 37. 

Hammond Levi B., r 16, farmer 56. 

Hammond Melville F., r 6, carpenter and joiner, and farmer 90^ 

Hancy William B., r 23, farmer on shares with M. Mead 160. 

Hand Delmer C, laborer, h Maple ave. 

Hardendorf George M., (Ketchumville) r 13, farmer 100. 

Hardendorf Henry D., (Ketchuinville) r 13, farmer 30. 

Harris Emma, r 16, widow John, resident. 

Harris Isaac, tailor, h Bridge. 

Harris Luther C, r 5, farmer 46. 

Harris William H., (Connecticut) r 15, farmer 50. 

Harvey Catharine, widow Abel, resident, h East ave. 

Harvey Jed, laborer, h East ave. 

Harvey Mark, laborer, h Maple. 

HAVENS GEORGE, shoemaker. Water, h do. 

Henderson Alexander, r 24, farmer 170. 

Henderson Irving, r 24, farmer with his father Alexander. 

Henry George, emp. tannery, h Main. 

Herrick Perlee, r 40, farmer 175. 

Hess David, resident, h Maple. 

Higbe Charles, retired farmer, h Main. 

Hill Chauncey, (Ketchumville) r 1 1, resident. 

Hilligas Charles, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 26, farmer 57. 

HILLIGAS LORENZO D., mason and builder, h Maple. 

Hinsdale Fran^, r 23, farmer 160. 

HINSDALE FRANK W., r 23, farmer 130. 

Hinsdale James E., r 21, farm laborer. 

HOFF ERASTUS, r 19, farmer 165. 

HofF George, retired, h Whig. 

Holden Ermina, r 41, teacher. 

Holden Haiilan P., farm laborer, h Main. 

Holderi Hiram, r 41, farmer no. 

Holden Laura E., r 5, widow Walter, resident. 
■ Holdrege Ira J., (Ketchumville) r 11, shoemaker. 

Holes John, farm laborer, h Moore. 

HoUaday'Anna M., milliner. Water, h do. 

HoUaday Eli J., egg buyer, h Water. 

HoUaday Herbert, farmer, h Water. 

Holland Vienna, widow Abram, resident, h Main. 

HoUenbeck Chester, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 48, farmer 200. 



&5 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

IHoUenbeck Harrison, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 48, farmer 60. 
IHollenbeck Whitfield, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer ,100. 
IHollister Herbert, r is^, farmer 56. 
Holmes Jerome D., dealer in horses, h Main. 

Holmes Rufus, dealer in horses, h Main. 

Hooker Charles B., painter and paper-hanger, Whig, h do. 

Hooker Frederick, r 15, farmer for Frank G. Bushnell. 

Hooker John J., bridge builder, h Maple. ' 

Hooker Mary E., teacher, bds. Whig. 

Hopkins George, emp. N. K. Waring, h Whig. 

Hooper Peter Q., farm laborer, h Silk. 

Hotchkin Mary E., widow Marshal, resident, h Main. 

Hover Albert, (West Newark) r 22, farmer 85. 

Hover Albertus C, (West Newark) r 22, farmer 25, and leases of W. Wat- 
kins 125. 

Hover Cornelius, (West Newark) retired. 

Hover Hannah, r 20, widow Gilbert, resident. 

Hover James, r 20, farm laborer. 

Hover Lucinda A., r 38, widow Charles, carpet-weaver. 

Hover Marvin L., (West Newark) r 22, carpenter. 

Hover Willis E., (West Newark) r 22, postmaster, and farmer 66. 

Howard Anderson, marble and granite polisher, h Maple. 

Howard Barzillia S., laborer, h Maple ave. 

Howard Uriel A., painter, John, h do. 

Howard William R., r 21, farmer. 

Howland Henry H., (Rowland Sz: Hill, Auburn) creamery, h Elm. 

Howland Jane E., resident, h Main. 

Hulslander John H., r 24, small beer manuf. 

Humphrey Cyrus, r 24, farmer, leases of W. Tappan. 

Humphrey Edward G., (Jenksville) off r i, farm laborer. 

Humphrey Jacob V., r 24, milk dealer. 

HUNT LEWIS, fire and life insurance, Water, h Bridge. 

HUTCHINSON HORACE W., hardware. Water, h Whig. 

Hyden Charles, (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 72. 

Hyden John, laborer, h Main. 

Hyden Henry; retired, h East ave. 

■Jackson Nelson E., r 16, farmer 50. 

Jackson O. Lester, carpenter, h Whig. 

Jackson Robert, r 25, farmer, leases of Alfred Roulet 140. 

Jackson William H., (Byington & Jackson) h Whig. 

Japhet Levi, r 15 J, farmer 55. 

Japhet Mi's., resident, h Ward. 

JAYNE & BALL, (G. F , J. and H. W. B.) meat market and produce deal- 
ers. Water. 

JAYNE ANNA M., teacher, bds. Whig. 

JAYNE GEORGE F., (Jayne & Ball) h Whig. 

Jayne Henry F., produce dealer and farmer, h Whig. 

Jennings Mary, widow David, resident, bds. Whig. 

Johnson Clark H., r 41, farmer 35b. 

Johnson Jefferson, r 16, farmer 80. 

Joslin Almond, (Flemingville) r 61^, lumberman and farmer. 

Joslin Daniel, (Flemingville) r 6i|-, lumberman and farmer 97. 

iSTAIlKEV dc irilVXERS, fVbolesale and Retail DruggUta, Oirego. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 87 

Joslin Edward A., r 41, farmer. 

Joslin Joseph D., r 41, telegraph operator. 

Kaley Ira, laborer, h^John. 

Kattell Erskine, r 35, farm laborer. 

Keith Frank R., (Jenksville) r i, farm laborer. 

Keith Lucius A., (Jenksville) r i, carpenter. 

Kelleher Timothy, laborer, h Dam lane. 

Kelleher Thomas, hostler, bds. Dam lane. 

Kellogg Alva D., r 41, farmer 46. 

KcUum Bradford, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 20. 

Kellum Frederick, (Main, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer, leases of Freeman 

Madison 100. 
Kennedy Charles, r 25, farmer 90. 
Kennedy J. Arthur, laborer, h Watson. 

KENNEDY JOSEPH L., r 25, farmer with his father Charles. 
Kennedy LaMont, r 25, farmer with his father Charles. , 

KENYON CHARLES E., r 53, dealer in Wiard plows, farmer 50 and in 

Owego TOO. 
Kenyon Edwin, r 23, farmer r8. 
Kenyon Frank, r 53, farmer. 
Kenyon Lorenzo, r 23, farmer 42. 
Kenyon Lydia, r 23, widow Howland, resident. 
Kenyon Raymond, r 53, farmer. 
Kershaw C. Benjamin, r 41, farmer 73. 

Ketchum Seneca, (Ketchumville) r 1 2, prop, hotel and farmer 80.: 
Kinney Edward G., school trustee, h Whig. 
Knapp Frank J., r 40^, farmer. 

Knapp George, off r 41, farmer with his father Gay lord. 
Knapp M. Gaylord, off r 41, farmer. 
Knapp William T., r 58, farmer 95. 
Kniskern E. Ann, widow George, resident, h Moore. 
Lainhart Abram, r 46, farmer 96. 

Lainhart Arthur, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 50, farmer for his father Aaron 140. 
LAINHART ELIAS, r 51, farmer 135. 

Lainhart Ephraim, farmer 30, and leases of W. Elwell 150, h Whig. 
Lainhart John, (Ketchumville) r 14, farmer 300. 
Lamb J. Bruce, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 14, farmer 90. 
Lane Jacob, r 15^, farmer 50. 

LANDFIELD JEROME B., (Davidge, Landfield & Co.) h Mam. 
LAWRENCE HORACE F., r 61, farmer 30. 
Lawrence Melton, r 15, farmer for W. H. Harris. 
LAWRENCE MILES A, r 16, school trustee, also farmer 20. 
Lawrence Sarah A., r 61, widow Joel, carpet-weaver. 
Lawrence William J., r 15, farmer 100. 
Leach Daniel F. Rev., pastor Baptist church, h Whig. 
Leach R. Jennette, widow John, resident, h Main. 
Legg Melville M., carpenter, h Spring. 
Leonard Arthur, farm laborer, bds. Franklin. 
Leonard Augustus N., retired, bds. Franklin. 
Leonard Grace A., dressmaker, bds. Franklin. 
Leonard Herbert, marble-cutter, h Franklin. 
Lipe Albert, r 55, farmer, leases of Romaine Bieber 50. 

STARK.I:T & uriNXERS, Druggists. Onrego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



88 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Lipe Austin, 157, farmer with his father Jacob. 

Lipe David, r 58, farmer 45. 

Lipe George F., r 57, farmer with his father John W. 

LIPE GILBERT, r 57, farmer with his father Jacob. 

Lipe Jacob, r 57, farmer 125. 

Lipe John W., r 57, farmer 165. 

Lipe Lyman, r 42, farm laborer. 

Livermore Bert J., clerk, h Main. 

Livermore James M., retired farmer, h Main. 

Livingston Eugene, r 45, farmer 55. 

LOCKWOOD DANIEL, (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 117. 

Loomis Anson, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 50, farmer 79. 

LOOMIS GEORGE W., resident, h Bridge. , 

Loomis Myron L., (Maine, Broome Co.) r 49, farmer, works on shares for 

his father 50. 
Lord John, farm laborer, h East ave. 
Loveland Elizabeth H., teacher, bds. Whig. 
Loveland Henry B., sugar orchard 500 trees, farmer 115, h Whig. 
Loveland William, farmer with his father Henry B., bds. Whig. 
Liick Ozias F., r 35, carpenter. 
Lull Charlotte Mrs., resident, h Maple. 
Lull George T., farm laborer, h Maple ave. 
Lynch J. Henry, r 25, farm laborer. 

Madan R. Jennie, (Jenksville) r i, widow Benjamin C, seamstress. 
Mahar John, r 25, farmer 150. 
Marean Alson J., r 61, farmer 25. 
Marean Lucien B., oflF r 60, resident. 
Marinus David, r 21, farmer 82 1-2. 
Marshall John, r 26, farm laborer. 
Matile Mary L., widow G. August, h Elm. 
McCabe William, laborer, h East ave. 
McCrady William H., r 25, farmer 78. 
McCuUough Catharine, r 45, widow William, farm 38. 
McCuUough Lorenzo D., r 53, farmer 150. 
McMahan Patrick, laborer, h Whig. 
McPherson George B., r 5, farmer with his father John. 
McPherson John, r s, farmer 225. 
McPherson Robert, r 5, retired farmer. 
McVean Charles U., (Ketchumville) r 13, farmer 120. 
Mead Clyde V., (Jenksville) r i, farmer with his father Rogers D. 
Mead Levi, (Weltonville) r 40, farmer 45. 
Mead Lewis J., r 40 1-2, farmer. 
Mead Martin, farmer 15, h Moore. 
Mead Marvin, r 25, farm laborer. 
Mead Nelson C, r 24, farmer 1 16. 

MEAD ROGERS D., (Jenksville) r i, orchard 400 trees and farmer 400. 
Mead William R., r 40, farmer 85. 
Meara Margarite, resident, h Elm. 
MERRILL LUCINDA B., widow Abel, resident. 
Millen Arthur L., (Jenksville) r i, farmer with his father Elisha. 
Millen Elisha, (Jenksville) r i, farmer 114. 
Millen Myron L.. (Jenksville) r i, farmer with his father Elisha. 
Miller Daniel H., r 5, carpenter, also farmer 24. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 89 

Miller Sarah, widow Robert B., resident, h Main. 
Minard Theodore, farmer on shares with Thomas Gary 70, h Main. 
Minturn A. Mary, dressmaker, bds Main. 
Minturn Amelia F. Mrs., teacher, h Main. 
Mix Eugene P., blacksmith, Main, h Franklin. 
Monell Wilford, (Ketchumville) r 9, farm laborer. 
Monell William F., r 41, farmer 187. 
Monigan Barney, emp. tannery, h East ave. 
Monigan Patrick C, emp. tannery, bds. East ave. 
Moon Levi B., cooper, Spring, h do. 
Moon W. Adelbertj stationary engineer, h Elm. 
Mooney Kernen, emp. tannery, h East ave. 
Moore Frank, r 25^, farmer 100. 
Moore Lucy M., r 41, widow David R., resident. 
Moore Mary, r 41, resident. 
Moore Winnie, (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer 300. 
More Cornelia, r 35, resident. 
Moseman Naomi J., widow William, h Silk. 
Moses Frederick E., miller, bds. Main. 

Moses Philander P., prop. Newark Valley custom mill, Main, h do. 
Mott William H., r 60, farmer 25. 
Munson Nathan J;, r 15^, farmer 81. 
Murray Thomas D., section foreman S. C. R. R., h Elm. 
Muzzy Charles, r 24, farmer 50. 
Muzzy Emily, resident, bds. Main. 
Muzzy Frank H., r 6, farmer 100. 
MUZZY GEORGE B., r 6, surveyor, and farmer 100. 
Mynard Benajah, r 18, farmer. 
Neal Amy, teacher, bds. Brook. 
Neal Harvey, stone mason, h Brook. 
Neal Mary, teacher, bds. Brook. 
Neal Nettie, teacher, bds. Brook. 
Neal Orlie Mrs., dressmaker, h Brook. 
Nearing Ira, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 49, farmer 250. 
Neff Asel, basket-maker, h East ave. 
, NeiF Stephen, laborer, h Main. 
Nicholson Colonel H., (Connecticut) r 15, farmer 40. 
Nicholson Grant, r 15, farmer for his father C. H. 
Nisfer George P., r 46, farmer with his brother John 160. 
Niefer John, r 46, farmer with his brother George P. 160. 
NIXON CHARLES D., prop. Jenksville steam mills, residence m Ovvego. 
Nixon Ephtaim, r 40^, retired. 

NIXON GEORGE H., (Jenksville) r i, sUp't Jenksville steam mills. 
Nixon Isabella, (Jenksville) r i, widow William, resident. 
Nixon Jane F., (Jenksville) r i, widow George G., resident. 
Nixon John G., (Jenksville) r i, general store. 
*NOBLE & PURPLE, (C. L. N. and G. E. P.) props. Tioga County Herald, 

Water. 
NOBLE CHARLES L., (Noble & Purple) h Main. 
Noble C. S. Miss, farm, h Main. 
Noble David W., farmer 75, h Main. 
Noble E. George, farmer 30, h Main. 
Noble James T., farmer, h Main. 



-go TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

NOBLE LYMAN B., dealer in eggs and poultry, bds. Main. 

."Noble Mary L., resident, bds. Main. 

Noble Washington A., farmer, h Main. 

Nolan Mary, widow John, general housework, h Main. 

Nolan Patrick, erap. tannery, h East ave. 

JNolton Byron, r 55, farmer 51. 

Nolton William, cirpenter, h Maple. 

North Sarah A., r 24. widow Samuel D., resident. 

Nowlan & Abbott, (E. G. N. & G. A.) blacksmiths. Main. 

Nowlan Edward G., (Nowlan & Abbott) h Main. 

Owen James K., (Ketchumville) r 11, farmer 30. 

-Owen Wesley, (Ketchumville) r ii, watch and clock repairer. 

Pangburn Stephen, r 15 1-2, farmer 56. 

Partridge John B., (West Newark) r 22, farmer. 

Patrick Leroy, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 49, farmer, leases of Turner estate 150. 

Patterson Alfred, off r 39, farmer 100. 

PATTERSON D. WILLIAMS, genealogist, h Main. 

Payne Ellis, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 50. 

Pearl Aloertine Mrs., housekeeper, h Main. 

Pease George W., (Ketchumville) r 9, farmer, leases of Fred North 20. 

Tease Henry F., (Ketchumville) r 12, carpenter. 

Pease Morris, (Ketchumville) r 12^ farmer. 

Pellett George, r 2 1 , farmer 30. 

Pellett William M., r 21, farmer 132. 

Perry Cephas, (Ketchumville) r 13, farmer 30. 

Perry George, stone mason, h Ward. 

Phelps Diana, widow Jason, resident, h Main. 

Phillips Harriet, widow William, resident, h Moore. 

Phillips John M., painter, h Moore. 

Phipps George, (Ketchumville) r t2, peddler. 

Pier Bradford S., r 46, farm laborer. 

Pierce Hiram C, r 16, farmer 25. 

PIERSON CHARLES O., harness-maker. Water, h Eliii. 

Pierson William, r 6, retired farmer. 

Pinney Egbert B., traveling salesman, h Silk. 

Pitcher Adelbert, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 28, farm laborer. 

Pitcher Alfred, r 30, farmer 50. 

Pitcher AUie De F., r 35, farmer for his father, Harrison. 

Pitcher Eli (Maine, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 80. 

Pitcher Harrison, r 35, farmer in. 

Pitcher James, (Maine, Broome, Co.) r 29, farmer, leases of Frank Lewis 50. 

Pitcher Nathan, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 29, farm laborer. 

Pitcher Silas, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 90. 

Pitcher Wesley, off r 35, farmer, leases of David J. Shear 50. 

Pollard Ira J., (Ketchumville) r 9, teamster. 

PRENTICE ELMER E., r 20, farmer. 

PRENTICE ULYSSES G. Jr., r 4, farmer with his father William F. 

Prentice William F., r 4, farmer no. 

Prentice William G., erap., William's saw-mill, h Franklin. 

PURPLE GILBERT E., (Noble & Purple) h Main. 

■Quail William, r 8, farm laborer. 

■Quick Frederick, r 52, farmer. 

Race Lucy A., resident, bds. Whig. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 9 1 

E.aleigh Orria, emp. N. K. Waring, h Maple. 

RANDALL OSCAR S., general merchant, Water, h do. 

JR.ecordon Theodore, r 60, farmer 50. 

Jleeves William J., r 20, excise commissioner, and farmer 145. 

Rewey Emeline, widow Oliver, resident, h Main. 

Rice James, laborer, h Main. 

Rice John, retired, h Silk. 

Rich Marion F., (Connecticut) r 15, farmer, works on shores for William 

Bushnell 50. 
:RICHARDS0N FRED W., traveling salesman, and farmer 200, h Whig. 
Riley Andrew, clerk, h Maple. 

"Riley Andrew B., carpenter, also dealer in wagons, h Maple. 
Riley Kate, widow Michael, laundress, h off East ave. 
Riley Maggie, clerk, h Water. 

!Riley William, (Ketchumville) r 13, blacksmith and farmer 25. 
-Robbins Clark M., (West Newark) r 22, farm laborer. 
Robbins GeorgCj traveling hair-dresser, h Maple. 
Robbins George E. Mrs., dressmaker, h Maple. 

-ROBERTS JOHN O., groceries and provisions, and wholesale dealer in 
ibutter and eggs, Water, h Elm. 
Rockwood Lorenzo F., station agt. S. C. R. R., also agt. U. S. express, and 

telegraph operator, h East ave. 
ROGERS CORNELIUS R., physician and surgeon, Main, h do. 
Rogers Edward, (Maine, Broom Co.) t 4T, farmer 16. 
;Ross John, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 27, farmer 50. 
Roulet Alfred, farmer 140. 
Roulet Felix, traveling salesman, h Elm. 
ROYS ALPHEUS D.. (Roys & Todd) h Main. 

-ROYS & TODD, (A. D. R. & Mrs. P. E. T.) general merchants, Main. 
Russell Henry, (Main, Broome Co.) r 14, farmer 93. 
Ryan Mary, widow Michael, bds. Brook. 
Ryan William, principal school, h Main. 
:Saddlemire Alexander, r 26, farmer 80. 
Saddlemire Anna E., r 30, widow David, resident. 
Saddlemire Daniel J., r 31, carpenter, and farmer 25. 
Saddlemire Elias, r 41, farmer. 
Saddlemire Emily Mrs., r 26, farm 40. 
Saddlemire Ephraim, (Main, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 61, 
Saddlemire Fenton R., r 31, farmer with his father, Noyes P. 
Saddlemire Frank, r 57, farmer 60. 
•Saddlemire Jacob H., r 25, egg buyer, and farmer 78. 
Saddlemire Jerome, r 43, farmer in. 

■Saddlemire Manfred, r 26, farmer for his mother, Mrs. Emily Saddlemire. 
Saddlemirq Noyes P., r 31, farmer 188. 

•Salisbury William H., (Weltonville) r 40, farmer on shares with J. W. Barrett. 
SANDWICK JOHN K., barber, water, h Whig. 
Schnapp Jacob, Jr., r 53, farmer 25. 
Schoolcraft Hattie E., r 42, widow Lucius, resident. 
Schoolcraft John, laborer, h East ave. 
Schoolcraft John D., r 35, farmer 19. 
Schoolcraft Minor, r 42, farm laborer. 
Schoolcraft Paul, r 35, resident. 
Schoolcroft Abagail, r 45, widow David, resident. 



92 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Schoolcroft Adam, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 102. 

Schoolcroft Earnest, r z6, farmer, leases of D. Pitcher estate 200. 

Schoolcroft Henry, r 34, farmer 40. 

Searles Ezra, r 61, mason and farmer 50. 

Searles Jack E., r 41, painter. 

Sears Lizzie M., dressmaker, Elm, bds. do. 

Sears Sophronia M. Mrs., resident, h Elm. 

Sebastian Christina, r 53, widow G. O., resident. 

Settel Deidamia, r 46, widow John, resident. 

Settel Oscar, r 46, farmer 300. 

Settell David, retired, h White. 

Settell Elmer E., r 32, farmer with his father, Ira D. 

Settell George, r 51, farmer 90. 

Settell Ira D., r 32, farmer 177. 

SETTLE PETER, r 45, farmer 105. 

Shafer Egbert, r 41, farm laborer. 

Shaifer Charles E., r 25, farmer 50. 

Sharp Osmer, (Ketchumville) r 9, farm laborer. 

Sharp Robert B., (Ketchumville), r 11, blacksmith and farmer 152. 

Shaw Laura M., widow Joel, h Main. 

Shaw Philander M., farmer 62, h Main. 

Shay James, laborer, h Maple ave. 

Shear David J., resident, h Elm. 

Shear John I., r 35, farmer 64. 

Sheldon Harley G., retired farmer, h Main. 

Sherman Hiram L., carpenter, h Maple. 

Sherman Peter, (Ketchumville) r 13, farmer. 

SHERWOOD GEORGE F., supt. Davidge & Landfield's tannery, h Maple. 

Sherwood Warren D., sewing machines, h Main. 

Shoultes Chauncey, r 53, farm laborer. 

Shoultes Edward W., r 32, farmer with his father, William H. 

Shoultes Frederick, r 53, farmer 95. 

Shoultes George, r 53, farmer 50. 

Shoultes Ira., off r 53, farmer 100. 

Shoultes Ira A., r 35, farm laborer. 

Shoultes William H., r 32, farmer 75. 

Shulenburg Wallace H., r 41, farm laborer. 

Simmons Joseph, retired, h Elm. 

SLOSSON GEORGE W., justice of the peace, h Maple. 

SMITH ALFRED, (Jenksville) r 51, horse-breeder and farmer 120 ; farnn 

for sale. 
Smith Benjamin F., resident, h Main. 
SMITH EDWIN P., farmer, h Main. 
Smith Elijah, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 27, farmer, works on shares for Frank. 

Lewis 315. 
Smith Harvey B., resident, h Brook. 
Smith Jabez C, farmer, leases of E. P. Smith 70. 
SMITH JOEL E, r 41, farmer 25. 
SMITH JOHN E., r 40J, excise com. and farmer 100. 
Smith John S., resident, h Bridge. 

SMITH L. M. & SON, (Lewis H.) drugs and wall-paper, 5 Water. 
SMITH LEWIS H.. (L. M. Smith & Son) h Water. 
SMITH LUCIUS M., (L. M. Smith & Son) h Water. 



TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 93 



Smith Randolph L., r 40 1-2, farmer 58. 

Smith William H., r 5, farmer 45. 

Smullen Charles M., Qenksville) r i, blacksmith. 

Snapp Edward E., r 53, farmer 106. 

Snapp Emeline, r 53, widow George, resident. 

SNAPP FRANK, r 53, farmer 90. 

Snapp Henry O., r 15,. farmer 75. 

Spaulding Lucius W., r 41, farmer 160. 

Spaulding Luther J., retired, h Main. 

Spaulding Marcus M., retired, h Main. 

Sprague Almander, retired, h Main. 

Sprague Henry A., resident, h Main. 

Sprague Lewis H., resident, h Main. 

Stannard Aretus R., emp. Donley Brothers, h Brook. 

Stannard Henry, r 26 1-2, farmer 100. 

Stannard Hiram R., bakery, Water, h do. 

Stannard John M., r 25, farmer 104. 

Stevens Aaron C, r 41, millwright and turner. 

Stevens Elvira Mrs., r 42, resident. 

STEVENS HENRY W., r 42, apiarist, small fruit grower and poultry. 

Stevens William W., r 41, farmer 23. 

Stever Fred A., painter, h Whig. 

Stinard Jane H., r 4, widow James D., resident. 

Stowell Alexander D., r 16, farmer 18. 

Strait Edward, r 19, farmer, leases of J. R. Johnson 63. 

Strait Joseph, (Connecticut) r 8, lumberman and shingleman. 

Strong Fanny C, (Jenksville) r i, widow Isaac B., resident. 

Strong Fred W., (Jenksville) r i, farmer, leases of J. Evans 10. 

Strong Orin, (Jenksville) r i, farmer 200. 

Sturtevant David M., carriage painter, Brook, h Whig. 

Sutphen Horace, (Jenksville) r i, supt. .Nixon farm. 

SUTTON GEORGE B., r 41, artist and farmer 100. 

Sweet Charles E., (Ketchumville) r 13, blacksmith. 

Sweigler Robert, r 58, farmer 45. 

TAPPAN CHARLES, small fruit grower and farmer, bds. Whig. 

Tappan John C, farm laborer, h Whig cor. Moore. 

Tappan. Rebecca A., widow Asher C, resident. Whig cor. Moore. 

Tappan Revere C, physician and surgeon, Main, h do. 

Tappan Riley A., farmer 150. 

THORNTON C. FRANK, stone mason and prop, of quarry. East ave. 

Thornton Chauncey G., resident, h Franklin. 

Thornton George, r i6, farm laborer. 

Thornton Mary E., laundress, h Franklin. 

TIBBITTS ELI D., retired farmer. Main. 

TIDD JPHN, r 41, retired. 

*TI0GA COUNTY HERALD, (Noble & Purple) weekly, issued Saturday, 

W^a.tcr. * 

TODD FRANK H., clerk, h Main. 
TODD PHEBE E., (Roys & Todd) h Main. 
Tompkins George, (Ketchumville) r 10, farmer. 
Towner Lucy M., r 4, widow Milo B., resident. 
Treible Wilson Rev., pastor M. E. church, h Main. 
Tripp Emma, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, widow Frank, resident. 



94 TOWN OF NEWARK VALLEY. 

Turner Charles, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 49, farmer J13. 

Turner Leroy, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 49, farmer 400. 

VanDemark John, (Weltonville) r 40, farmer 62. 

VanDemark Lucius, r 16, farm laborer. 

VanGlowe Abram, (Jenksville) off r i, farm laborer. 

VanPatten Richard H., farmer 40, h East ave. 

Wade Edgar O., r 41, farmer with his father William H. 

Wade William H., r 41, farmer 86. 

Waldo Betsey C, resident, Ji Main. 

Waldo William D., r 6, farmer 46. 

Walter Charles, off r 4r, farmer 63. 

Walter Clarence S., r 41, carpenter and joiner. 

Walter Eugene C, r 39, farmer 30. 

Walworth Clark, r 23, farmer 140. 

Walworth LaVern, r 4, farmer 96. 

Walworth William, r 23, farmer with his father Clark. 

Waring Norman K., manuf. fly-rods. Spring, h do. 

Warner Frank, (Connecticut) r 9, emp. lumber-mill. 

Warner William, (Connecticut) r 9, emp. lumber-mill. 

Washburn Stoddard, farm laborer, h Maple ave. 

Waterman Charles H., r 5, farmer, leases of A. C. Matthews 128. 

Watkins William, (West Newark) r 22, farmer. 

Watrous Frank, r 15, farmer 185. 

Watson Abbie J., widow Seth, bds. Whig. 

Wells Henry L., book-keeper for Davidge, Landfield & Co., h Main. 

Wells Jane B., widow Frederick, farm 130, h Main. 

WELLS LUCIUS E., (Burch & Wells) h Mam. 

Wells William F., farmer with his mother Jane B., bds. Main. 

Westfall E. Frank, r 55, farm laborer. 

Westfall Frank, r 56, farmer 15. 

Westfall Frederick W., r 16, farmer with his father Joseph F. 

AVestfall Joseph F., r 16, farmer 100. 

White George W., (Jenksville) custom grist and saw-mill. 

WHITING BROS., (J. E. and W. V. B.) wagon and carriage makers, re- 
pairing done with neatness and dispatch. Brook. 

WHITING WARREN V. B., (Whiting Bros.) h Main. 

WHITING JERRY E., (Whiting Bros.) h Main. 

Whitmore Horace L., leather finisher, h Whig. 

Whitmore Martha, widow Hezekiah, resident, h Whig. 

Williams Edson, r 41, farmer, leases, of James Reed 100. 

Williams Lucius E., saw, planing and feed-mill, and dealer in coal and lumber,, 
off Main, h Rewey ave. 

Williams Margaret, widow Almeran, bds. off Bridge. 

Williams Oliver G., laborer, h Maple. 

Williams Royal R., farmer 85, h off Bridge. 

Williams Theodore, carpenter, h Elm. 

Willis Henry, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farm laborer. 

Willis Horace B., (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 43. 

Wilson Elnora, widow Charles F., resident, h Main. 

Winship Charles B., boarding-house, Maple. 

Winship Henrv, retired, h Main. 

WOOD HENRY A., billiard room and shoemaker. Water, h do. 

STARKBY & WINTERS, 'Wbolesalo and Retail Druggists, OvvegOk- 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. 95, 



Wood Joseph, retired, h Rewey ave. 

Woodard Andrew J., laborer, bds. Maple. 

Wright Malborn W., resident, h Main. 

Wright Sarah, widow Giles, resident, h Main. 

YOUNG HIRAM, (Dimraick & Young) bds. Diminick House. 

Young John, r 51, farmer 96. 

Young Wilson, r 51, farmer with his father John. 

Zimmer Addie Mrs., nurse, h Whig. 

Zimmer Asa W., r 45, farmer with his father Elias. 

Zimmer Charles, r 31, farmer. 

Zimmer Charles W., r 45, farmer with his father Elias. 

Zimmer Daniel, r 53, farmer 70. 

Zimmer Delmar, r 43, farmer with his father Seymour E. 

Zimmer Edgar, (West Newark) r 22, farm laborer. 

Zimmer Edward, r 45, farmer with his father Seymour E. 

Zimmer Edward, r 46, farmer 85. 

Zimmer Elias, r 45, farmer 180. 

Zimmer Eva M., teacher, bds. Whig. 

Zimmer Henry S., r 35, farmer 65. 

Zimmer Jacob, r 26, farmer 20. 

Zimmer Lyman, r 26, farmer 125, 

Zimmer Manier, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 93. 

Zimmer Miner S., r 34, farmer 54. 

Zimmer Nathaniel, (Maine, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 96. 

Zimmer Peter A., r 40 1-2, farmer 115. 

Zimmer Peter B., ir 30, farmer 200. 

Zimmer Ransom J., r 30, farmer 128. 

Zimmer Seymour E., r 45, farmer 112. 

Zimmer Sherman, r 45, farmer with his father Seymour E. ' 

Zimmer Wesley, r 45, farmer with his father Elias. 



HICHOLS. 



{^For explanations, etc., see page j, part second.) 

(Postoffice address is Nichols, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Adams Eliza S., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, resident. 

Adams Maria, widow Absalom, resident. 

ADAMS STEPHEN B.(Hooper's Valley) r 5, McCormick Harvesting: 

Machine Company's agt. for Tioga County, and farmer 140. 
Alen Clarence B., (Owego) r 20, farm laborer. 
Alien John, (Owego) r 10, farm laborer. 
Allen Robert A., laborer, h Main. 
AUington Emily J., (Hooper's Valley) r i, resident. 
Ailington Sarah A., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, widow Rev. Jacob, farm 34. 
Ames Lloyd H , (Owego) r 21, stationary engineer. 
STARKEY &, WINTEAS, promptly All Mall and Telephone Orders.. 



96 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



Ames Orley L. Mrs., laundress, h River. 

Anderson H. Beecher, hostler, bds. Main. 

Angell Benjamin P., retired, h Main. 

Angell Charles D., (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer, leases of Pearsall & Gray 250. 

Annable Lovisa, r 40, widow, resident. 

ANTHONY FLOYD H., groceries and provisions and livery, Main, h do. 

At wood Harrison, r 10, farm laborer. 

BABCOCK WILLARD, farmer, h Railroad.- 

Babcock William, laborer, h Main. 

Baird Frances C, resident, bds. Biver. 

BAKER BROTHERS, (W. W. and R. B.) props. Nichols creamery. 

Baker Frank B., emp. creamery, bds. Cady ave. 

BAKER ROBERT B., (Baker Bros.) h Cadv ave. 

BAKER WILLIAM W., (Baker Bros.) h Cady ave. 

Barnes George W., (Hooper's Valley) off r 5, farm laborer. 

Barr George, r 30, farm laborer. 

Barr John, r, 30, farmer 150. 

Barr John, Jr., r 2, farmer. 

Barr Lawrence, r 30, farm laborer. 

BARSTOW MARY L., resident, bds. River. 

Barstow Oliver A , (Hooper's Valley) r 5, retired. 

BAXTER FREDERICK H., r 26, farmer. 

Baxter George T., off r 26, farmer, leases 200. 

Beach Ernest C, miller, bds. Main. 

Bennett Abraham, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, resident. 

Bennett Elizabeth, r 26, widow Elijah, farm 25. 

Bensley Fred, (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer. 

BENSLEY JOHN, (Hooper's Valley) r i, school trustee and farmer 200. 

Bensley John C, (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer. 

Bixby Charles R., carpenter and builder, h Cady ave. 

Bixby Chester, carpenter, h Main. 

Bixby George W., r 37, farmer. 

Bixby Schuyler, r 37, farmer on shares with Jos. Reynolds 130. 

BIXBY SMITH R., contractor and builder, h River. 

Blair Linus, r 23, farm laborer. 

Bliven Cranston, member of school board; also, dealer in produce and 

general merchandise, Main, h River. 
BHven Cranston V. S., retired, bds. River. 
Boardman Elizabeth P., r 10, widow Edward, resident. 
Bonham Jonas, retired, h Cady ave. 
Booth Franklin, (Hooper's Valley) off r 5, farmer. 
Boyce David M., laborer, h River. 

Bradley Hiram, (Tioga Centre) r 10, farmer on shares with C. Lounsberry. 
Bradley Marcus, farmer on shares with Warren A. Smith 60, h River. 
Briggs Ebenezer, (E. Nichols) r 39, farmer 56. 
Briggs Edward W., (E. Nichols) r 22, farmer 91^. 
Briggs Elihu, (E. Nichols) r 22, farmer 94. 
Brigg Herman I., off r 9, stock dealer and farmer 87^^. 
Briggs Ira, r 39, farmer 75. 
Briggs Julius, (E. Nichols), r 46, farmer. 
Briggs Melvin, (E. Nichols) r 40, apiarist and farmer. 
Brott David, (Owego) r 21, farmer. 
Brougham John W., emp. Harris, DeGroat & Co., h Main. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS; 97 



Brown Elizabeth, off r 2,' widow Peter, resident. 

Brown Fanny, widow, h Main. 

Brown George, retired, h Oxford. 

Brownjames M., r 8, carpenter. 

Brown John W., r i, farmer 6. 

BROWN S. OTIS, oflf r 2, farmer 114. 

Burrell Isaac, farm laborer, h River. 

Burrell Lott S., laborer, bds. River. 

Butolph Frank E., r 9, farmer 76. 

Butolph Leroy, r 37, farmer 115. 

Butolph Sybil, r 48, farm 35. 

Cady George M., (Latham & Cady) also physician and surgeon, bds. River. 

CADY GEORGE P., physician and surgeon, River, h do. 

Cady William, retired, bds. Cadyave. (Died July 2, 1887.) 

Campbell Amos B., (Owego) r 42, cooper and farmer on shares with Charles 

Dunham 80. 
Campbell George W., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, laborer. 
Campbell Smith, r 9, farmer 31. 
Campion Frank, r 12, teacher and farmer. 
Carpenter Allen O., farm laborer, h Cady ave. 
Carter Alexander, (East Nichols) r 47, farm laborer. 
Childs Marcus W., principal of the Union School. 
Chubbuck Francis Rev., (Hooper's Valley) r t, retired M. E. clergyman and 

small fruit grower. 
CLAIR HIRAM, (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farmer 253. 

Clair William H., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farmer with his father Hiram. 

CLAPP SAMUEL, lumber dealer and farmer 60, bds. River. 

Clarke Howard W., traveling salesman, h Cady ave. 

Cogswell Henry S., (East Nichols) r 47, farmer, leases of G. Newman 50. 

COLE HORACE, r 3, farmer. 

Cole Truman, 27, farmer 114. 

Coleman & Horton, (E. C. & G. H. H.) hardware, stoves and tmware, Mam. 

Coleman Emmet, (Coleman & Horton) also postmaster, bds. Nichols House. 

Conant Edward H., painter, h River. 

Conant Luther, boots and shoes, Main, h River. 

Cortright Charles F., r 37, laborer. 

Cortright Elijah, r 24, cooper. 

Cortright John, (Tioga Center) r 10, laborer. 

Coryell Arthur, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, farm laborer. 

Coryell Augusta, widow Henry P., resident, h Cady Block.. 

Coryell Emanuel, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, farmer 65. 

Coryell Emanuel, Jr., (Hooper's Valley) r 4, farm laborer. 

Coryell Mary, teacher, bds. Cady Block. 

CORYELL IIOBERT P., r i, school trustee and farmer 250. 

Crandall Charles, r 10, farmer on shares with I. Dunham. 

CRANDALL GEORGE K, (Tioga Center) r 10, farmer. 

Crandall WiUiam, r 10, basket-maker. 

Cure Andrew J., r 10, farmer. 

CurkendoU William, r 10, carpenter and small fruit grower. 

Davenport Abraham, r 30, farm laborer. 

Davenport Amelia Mrs,, .(Hooper's Valley) r 2, farm 30. 
■Davenport Charlotte D., r 30, farm 25. 

Davenport Ellen, (Hooper's Valley) farm 30. 



gS TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



Davenport Ira, (Hooper's Valley) r 2, farmer. 
Davenport Joseph, r 2, farmer. 
DEAN JULIA A., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farm 34. 

DEAN NATHAN S., r i, apiarist 30 swarms, fruit grower, and farmer 60. 
De Bolder Lawrence, r 24, farmer 42 . 
De Bolder William E., stationary engineer, h Walnut. 
De Groat J. Fields, (Harris, De Groat & Co.) h Main. 
De Groat William, (Owego) r 16, blacksmith. 
Derring Herman, r 9, laborer. 
Doty Charles H., laborer, bds. Cady ave. 
Doty George W., retired, h Cady ave. 
Drake C. Sidney, clerk, bds. Nichols Hotel. 
Duncan James (E. Nicholas), r 40, farm laborer. 
Dunham Benjamin, (Owego) r 36, carpener, and farmer 74. 
Dunham Charles, (Owego) r 32, farmer 100. 
Dunham Charles, r 49J , farmer with his father Samuel. 
Dunham Charles L., r lo, farmer. 
DUNHAM EBENEZER, produce dealer. Main, h do. 
Dunham Elemer E., (Owego), r 35, farm laborer. 
Dunham Frances J., (Owego), r 36, teacher. 
Dunham Harriet P., (Owego) r 33, widow Anson, resident. 
Dunham Harvey W-, r 10, farmer 135. 
Dunham Isaac, r 10, farmer 300, and in Penn. 100. 
Dunham James, (Owego) r 17, farmer, leases of John Smith 100. 
Dunham Joseph M. r 10, farmer. 
Dunham Mary E., resident, h Main. 
Dunham Melissa S. Miss, (Owego) r 16, resident. 
Dunham Nehemiah, (Owego) r 35, farmer 50. 
Dunham Piatt, (Owego) r 32, farmer 50. 
Dunham Piatt Jr., (Owego), r 42, farmer 114. 
Dunham Samuel, (Owego) r 32, farmer. 
Dunham Samuel, r 49 1-2, farmer 71. 
Dunham Sands, r 23, farmer. 
Dunham Stephen H., r 10, farmer 135. 
Edsall Benjamin F., carpenter, h Howell. 
Edsall Brice P., retired, h Walnut. 
Edsall Ida O., widow David, resident, bds. River. 

EDSALL JOHN R., town clerk, also general merchant and dealer in agri- 
cultural implements. Main, bds. Walnut. 
Edwards Ann E., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, widow Albertus, resident. 
Edwards Cyrus, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, farm laborer. 
Ellis George, r 29, farmer. 

Ellis George, Jr., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, carpenter and ferryman. 
Ellis Hiram, (Hooper's Valley) r 28, farmer on shares with S. Kirby estate 67. 
Ellis John, (Waverly) r 30, farmer 15. 
Ellsworth Aurelia^ widow Francis H., resident, h River. 
Ellsworth Elwin F., painter and paper-hanger, bds. River. 
Ellsworth Henry N., carpenter, also farmer 31, h Cole. 
Elsbree Emily C., widow Manning, resident, h head of Main. 
Evans Amanda C, (Tioga Centre) r 22, widow Cytus G., farm 52. 
Evans Cyrus, (Tiga Center) r 13, farmer 50. 
Evans Edward E., well driver, also agt. for wind-mils, h Walnut. 
Evans Elijah K., r 8, contractor and builder, and farmer 20. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. g^ 



Everitt Elmore, r 8, supervisor, and farmer 38. 

Everitt Frederick M., tinsmith, h Main. 

Everitt George E., farmer, h Main. 

Everitt Harvey C, farmer 50, h Main. 

Everitt Hovey E., drug clerk, bds. r 8. 

EversOn George T., (Owego) r 17, farm laborer. 

Everson Oliver C, (Owego) r 17, farm laborer. 

FARNHAM OSCAR E., r 49^, patentee egg preserving rack, also prop. 

wood turning shop, and cidar-mill, and farmer 4^. 
FENDERgON JOHN, prop. Nichols steam flour, saw and planing-millSr 

h River. 
Ferris Horace, (Owego) r 17, farmer 50. 
Field Lucas T., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, postmaster. 
Ford George, r 9, farmer. 
FORMAN JOHN, r 10, member of school board, excise commissioner,. 

small fruit grower, and farmer 200. , 

Forman Miles, resident, h Main. 
Forman Smith, r 10, farmer with his father John. 
Fox Alfred J., farmer. 
Fox Harry, r 26, retired. 

Fox Isaac D., farmer 25, on shares with F. C. Lowman. 
Goetchins Maurice L., r i, farmer. 
Goodenough Delos, boots and shoes, Main, h do. 

Goodsell William S., (Athens, Pa.) r i, farmer 50, and leases of H. Kiff 70. 
Goodsell Zina, r 26, farmer 50. 
Granger Daniel, (Owego) r 20, farmer 36. 
Granger George M., (Owego) r 17, farmer 25. 
Greene Joseph G., (Owego) r 19, farmer on shares with S. Evans. 
Griswold Martha, (Waverly) r i, widow Henry, farmer 25. 
Griswold Thorns, (Waverly) r 1, farmer 50. 
Harael Charles E., (Owego) r 18, watch repairer. 
Hamel Clark, (Owego) r 18, gardener. 
Harden Ida Mrs., dressmaker, off Main. 
Harden Samuel W., farmer 26, h off Main. 
Harris, DeGroat & Co., (O. P. H., J. F. DeG. and R. C. H.) wholesale dealers; 

and shippers of hay, grain, potatoes and general farm products. Main. 
Harris Elizabeth D., widow Nathaniel B., resident, h Main. 
Harris Oliver P., (Harris, DeGroat & Co.) Main. 
Harris R. Corsa, (Harris, DeGroat & Co.) h Main. 

HAUVER GEORGE L., (Owego) r 16, farmer, leases of J. Hunt esta,te 90. 
Hazard Lois, r 10, wfdow Dwight, resident. 
Hazard. Willis W., r 8, farm laborer. 
Herrick Henry B., (Waverly) r 3s, farmer 6^. 
HERRICK WILLIAM, r i, apiariast 11 swarms, assessor, and farmer on 

shares with Julia A. Dean 31. 
Hill Abner, r 10, farm laborer. 

Hill Morris M., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farmer. ' . 

Hilligass David, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, district collector, and farmer 27. 
Hilligass Jacob, r 49, farmer. 
Hoover William, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, retired. 
Horton Betsey, widow Stephen S., h River. 
Horton G. Henry, (Coleman & Horton) also farmer 300, h River. 
Howell Arthur M., r 49^^, farmer. 



lOO TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



Howell John J., r 8, resident. 

Howell John L., retired, h Main. 

HOWELL ROBERT, r 49^, geologist, mineralogist, and farmer 127, and 

in Pennsylvania 20. 
HUNT ADONIJAH, (Owego) r 37, prop, saw and grist-mill, and farmer 140. 
Hunt Brothers, (Enos and Seth) r 10, farmers 60. 
Hunt Charles E., clerk, bds. Main. 
Hunt Ebenezer, r 10, farmer 53. 
HUNT ELIZABETH, (Owego) r 36, farm 194. 
HUNT EZRA C, (Owego) r 21, farmer no. 
Hunt George B., (Owego) r 17, farmer with his father Thomas J. 
Hunt John W., (Waverly) r i, farmer 160. 
Hunt Julia S., (Owego) r 17, widow Jonathan, 2d, farm 40. 
HUNT MARCELLA, (Owego) r 36, farm 194. 
HUNT SAMUEL, (Waverly) r i, farmer 155. 
HUNT SISTERS, (Owego) (E. and M. Hunt) r 36, farmer 194. 
Hunt Thomas J., (Owego) r 17, farmer 188. 
Hunt Timothy, (Owego) r 13, farmer. 
HUNT WILLISTON, r 10, farmerns. 
Hyres Frances, widow Jerry W., resident, h Main. 
INGERSOLL GEORGE A., r lo, member of school board, also stock 

breeder, and farmer 103. 
Jansen Abram, (Owego) r 33, retired. 
Johnson Charles H., r 23, farmer 47. 
Johnson Eliza J., r 10, widow Parley, resident. 
Johnson John A., r 23, farmer. 
Johnson John E., r 10, farmer 40. 
Jones Charles M., laborer, h Railroad. 
Jones Eveline, r 49, resident. 

Jones Lewis, r 39, road commissioner and farmer 100. 
JOSLIN EDWARD, dry and fancy goods, millinery and wall-paper. Main, 

hdo. 
Joslyn Louisa, (Owego) r 21, widow Peter, resident. 
Kane Michael, laborer, h Cady ave. 
Keech Miles W., r 46, mason, carpenter and farmer. 
KEECH T. WILBER, r 39, farmer, leases of his mother Laura 50. 
Kelso Harry, r 38, cigar-maker. 
Kennedy John M., telegraph operator, bds. Main. 
Kent Pulaski P., (Owego) r 17, farm laborer. 
KETCHAM ELI G., (Owego) r 35, justice of the peace, school trustee 

and farmer 226. 
Ketcham William, butcherj Main, h Walnut. 
KIRBY ALLEN B., agent D. L. & W. R. R., also, U. S. express agent, 

Main cor. Life. 
Lane David J., (Owego) r 1 7, apairist and farmer. 
Lane Fred H., (Owego) r 17, teacher. 
Lane George S., (Tioga Centre) r 13, farmer 127. 
Lane Harvey P., (Tioga Centre) r 13, farmer. 
Lane Lucinda, (Owego) r 16, widow Amos, farm 46. 
Lane Warren A., (Owego) r 17, school trustee and farmer 47. 
Laning Charles P., carpenter, h Howell. 
LaRue Isaac L., prop, hotel. Main. 

STARKEY & iriNTERS, Wholesale and Retail DrngsUts, Oirego. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. lOl 



Latham & Cady (S. H. L. and G. M. C.) druggists, toilet articles and con- 
fectionary, Main cor. River. 
Latham Sidney H., (Latham & Cady) h Main. 
Lisenby Charles F., r 8, farmer on shares with E. Dunham 240. 
Lisenby John, r i, farm laborer. 
Lollis William, r 16, nurse. 
Losaw Daniel, r 25, farmer. 
Lounsberry Benjamin, (Owego) r 17, farmer 138. 
Lounsberry Frederick, (Owego) r 21, farmer. 
Lounsberry George, (Tioga Centre) r 11, farmer roo. 
Lounsberry George F., (Tioga Centre) r 11, farmer 62. 
LOUNSBERRY HARRIET E., (Tioga Centre) r 10, farm 50. 
Lounsberry Harriet E., (Tioga Centre) r 10, widow James, farm 60. 
Lounsberry Horace, (Tioga Centre) r 13, farmer 241. 
Lounsberry Horace, Second, (Owego) r 21, farmer 70, and with Horace 

Lounsberry, First 241. 
Lounsberry James, (Tioga Centre) r 22, farmer 113. 
Lounsberry John, (Owego) r 21, saw-mill and farmer 159. 
Lounsberry Piatt, (Tioga Centre) r 10, retired farmer 28. 
LOUNSBURY WILLIAM R., r 12, excise commissioner and farmer 64. 
Loveland Mary A., widow Lewis, laundress, h Main. 
Loveland Seth H., (Waverly) r i, saw-mill and carpenter. 

LOWMAN FREDERIC C, r 3, breeder of thoroughbred short-horn cat- 
tle and farmer 525 j stock for sale at all times. 

Lunn William H., r 8, farm laborer. 

Lurcock Adelbert, r 3, farm laborer. 

Lurcock Frederick, (Tioga Centre) r 12, farmer. 

Lurcock William, emp. De Groat, Harris & Co., h Main. 

Lynch William, r 9, laborer. 

Mallory Frederick O., (Owego) r 32, farmer, leases of J. Smith, Jr., 50. 

Mallory John L., (Owego), r 23, local preacher, carpenter, and farmer 35. 

Mallory Susafi, widow Harrison, resident, bds. Cady ave. 

Mallory William W., barber, Main, h Cady ave. 

MARSHALL TIMOTHY B., r 49, town collector, and farmer 50. 

Mason Fritz, gardener, h Main. 

Matthews Hiram P., r 38, apiarist 25 swarms, small fruit grower, and farmer 

"3- 
MATTHEWS ISAIAH, r 38, cigar manufacturer, and prop, cider-mill. 

MATTHEWS STEPHEN P., (Owego) off r 32, retired physician, and 

farmer 40. 

Matthews Susie, widow Ephraim, art teacher, h Cady Block. 

McNeil George K., constable and collector, h Main. 

Measer Ernest H., r 30, farmer 70. 

Merrill Albert S., carpenter and builder, h Howell. 

Mettler James L., (Waterman & Mettler) h Cady ave. 

Mikels George H., laborer, h Howell. 

Mikels J. Henry, r X2, farm laborer. 

Miller Edmund S., blacksmith, Main, h Oxford. 

Miller James, off r 23, farmer. 

Miller William, off r 23, farmer. 

Mills Delavan, r 39, farmer 90. 

Mills Francis,'r 37, school trustee, and farmer 140. 

STARKEY & WINTERS, Drusglsts, Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



II02 TOWN OF NICHOLS. 



MITCHELL IDA A., art teacher, h Cady ave. 

MITCHELL MARY J., art teacher, h Cady ave. 

Mitchell Sally C, widow Nathan, resident, h Cady ave. 

Mollet Betsey, (Owego) r 19, widow Peter, farm '70. 

.Moody George, r 26, farm laborer. 

Moody George H., r 26, farmer 45. 

Moore Edwin T., (Owego) r 22, building mover, and farmer 114. 

Moore Frank H., (Owego) r 36, farmer. 

Moore George, r 37, farmer 260. 

Moore Ruth A., (Owego) r 36, widow Hezelton N., resident. 

Morey Robert, off r 9, farmer. 

Morse Frank J., R. R. section hand, bds. Main. 

Mosher Edwin, carpenter, h Main. 

Moulton Morris B., farmer iz, and 160 m Penn., h Main. 

Neal Henry C, off r 2, farmer 52. 

Neal Linus, r 23, farmer. 

JNeal Nehemiah E., furniture dealer and carriage pamter, Cady ave., h do. 

Newland Samuel, (Owego) r 18, carpenter. 

Newman George, (East Nichols) r 47, farmer 200. 

JSriCHOLS HOTEL, J. Piatt, prop., River. 

Nichols James, (East Nichols) r 44, farmer. 

Nichols John E., (East Nichols) prop, threshing machine and farm laborer. 

Northrop Charles T., (East Nichols) r 44, farmer 25. 

Olmstead Joseph, ferryman, h Ferry. 

Orsburn Charles, (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer. 

Orsburn Miers, (Hooper's Valley) r j, farmer 240. 

Qrsburn Miles, (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer. 

Osburn William, retired, h Cady ave. 

Paris Peter, r 10, farmer on shares with Ebenezer Hunt 53. 

PARK JOSEPH, (Waverly) r i, farmer 162. 

Pearl Eunice, (East Nichols) r 35, widow Daniel, farm 103. 

Pearl Fred G., (Owego) r 35, farmer 50. 

Pearl Walter H., (Owego) r 17, farmer 25. 

PEARSALL L. BURR, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, prop, steam saw-mill and 

farmer 386, and in Penn. 300. 
Peck William C. Rev., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, Free Baptist, retired. 
Peet Henry, (Owego) r 19, farm laborer. 
Pendleton Caleb F., foreman Nichols creamery, bds. Cady ave. 
PETTY FOSTER, (Hooper's Valley) r i, farmer. 
Pitcher Eliza, widow John, resident, h River. 
Pitcher Elvira, (Owego) r 18, widow Heman, farm 125. 
Pitcher John, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, farm laborer. 
Pitcher William A., emp. creamery, bds. River. 
Piatt Frank, clerk Nichols Hotel, River. 
PLATT JOHN, prop. Nichols Hotel, Main. 
Fresher Benjamin, (Tioga Center) r zi, farm laborer. 
■Quilty Michael, r 8, farmer 50. 
Ratchford John, miller, bds. Main. 
R.eed Adeline, (Owego) r 17, widow Ezra, farm 70. 
Reeves Ella, widow George, dressmaker, h River. 
Reynolds Albert S., r 39, farmer 50. 
Reynolds Amanda, r 9, widow Vincent, resident. 
Reynolds Enoch J., r 8, farmer on shares with A. Waterman 80. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. IO3 



REYNOLDS ISUM I., r 48, farmer 80, and leases of Miss S. Butolph 35, 

Reynolds John E., r 9, farmer 170. 

REYNOLDS JOHN S.,r 8, member of school board, and farmer 160. 

Reynolds Joseph, r 37, retired farmer. 

Reynolds Lester, farm laborer, h Main. 

Richardson Ester A. Mrs., (Owego) r 32, resident. 

Robertson Albert, (Owego) r 13, farmer 72. 

Robertson Charles T., (Owego) r 13, farmer. 

Robinson William O., traveling salesman, h Main. 

Rogers John H., (Hooper's Valley) r 2, farmer. 

Rogers Lorenzo, drayman, h River. 

Roper Frank H., (Owego) r 18, milk dealer, and farmer 54, and 25 in Owego; 

Ross Leonard B., cabinet-maker, and undertaker. Main, h River. 

Russell Frederick W., (E. Nichols) r 44, farmer. 

Russell Horace G., r 8, farmer with Ulysses G., leases of J. H. Morey 304. 

Russell Justin A., (E. Nichols) r 44, farmer 75. 

Russell Ulysses G., r. 8, farmer with his brother Horace, leases of J. H, 

Morey 304. 
Ryan Johanna, widow William, resident, bds. River. 
Sanford Jay, (Owego.) r 17, farmer 100. 
Scott Alonzo J., laborer, bds. Cady ave. 

Scott David C, farm laborer, h Cady ave. 

Scott Ella F., dressmaker, Cady ave., bds. do. 

Scott George B., emp. DeGroat, Harris & Co., h Main. 

Scott Libbie M., dressmaker, bds. Cady ave. 

Scott Perry L., laborer, bds. Cady ave. 

Searles Aaron P., (E. Nichols) r 44, farmer. 

Sears Charles, (Owego) r 21, farmer on shares with L. H. Pitcher 105. 

Sears David, (Owego) r*2i, farmer on shares with Ezra Hunt no. 

Sears Spencer, (Owego) r 36, farmer. 

Seymour Herrick H., (Owego) r 16, farmer 170. 

Sharp Charles, laborer, h Railroad. 

Sharp Rufus G., r 8, miller. 

Sherwood Casper I., general merchant, M:ain, h River. 

Sherwood Silas, r 7, poor-master, and farmer 68^. 

Sherwood Thomas B., (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer on shares with Mrs. 
Amanda Evans 52. 

Sherwood Wesley W., (Tioga Center) r 10, apiarist, and blacksmith. 

Shipman Edmund, r 24, farmer 6. 

Shipman Selem, r 24, laborer. 

SHOEMAKER EDGAR, r i, farmer 97. 

SHOEMAKER HORACE A., r 23, farmer. 

Shoemaker Lyman H., harnessmaker. Main, h do. 

Shoemaker William R., r i, farmer 180. 

Sibley Herbert L., (Owego) r 35, farmer, leases of S. Sibley 125. 

Sibley ijohn G., (E. Nichols) r 43, farmer 150. 

Sibley Samuel, (Owego) r 35, retired farmer. 

Sibley William H., (E. Nichols) r 43, farmer with his father John. 

Sisk Harriet, r 49I, widow John, resident. 

Sisson Wheeler, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, farm laborer. 

Smith Charles H., (Owego) r 16, farmer 80. 

Smith Charles O.; (Owego) r 23, farmer 90. 

SMITH HARVEY R, (Owego) r 10, farmer. too. 



I04 JOWN OF NICHOLS. 



Smith Jane B., (Hooper's Valley) r i, widow Washington, farm 120. 

Smith Jay L., (Owego) r 32, farmer. 

Smith John, (Owego) r 16, retired. 

SMITH JOHN., Jr., (Owego) r 18, milk dealer, and farmer 230. 

Smith Oliver P., (Hooper's Valley) r 5, blacksmith. 

Smith Samuel B., r i6, retired. 

SMITH SISTERS, (Catherine E. and Phebe A.) farm 120. 

SMITH WARREN A., justice of the peace, deputy postmaster, and farmer. 

Stanton Eben, r 27, farmer on shares with Z. Goodsell 100. 

Stanton Frank E., r 27, farmer with his father Eben. 

StaufF Elizabeth, (Hooper's Valley) r 28, farm 50. 

Stauff Frederick, (Hooper's Valley) r 28, farm laborer. 

StaufF George C, (Hooper's Valley) r 29, farmer. 

Stauff Henry, (Hooper's Valley) r 28, farm laborer. 

Steen Benjamin, (Owego). r 43, farm laborer. 

Steward Charles B., (Hooper's Valley) off r i, farmer with his father Jacob. 

Steward Frankhn P., (Hooper's Valley) off r i, farmer. 

Steward Jacob, (Hooper's Valley) off r i, farmer 145. 

Steward Thaddeus, (Hooper's Valley) r 3, small fruit grower, and farmer 97. 

Steward Thaddeus J., (Hooper's Valley) off r i, farmer. 

Strong Sadie, clerk, bds. Main. 

Sullivan Dennis O., mason, h Cady ave. 

Sullivan Fred J., farm laborer, bds. River. 

Sullivan John, farm laborer, h River. 

Sullivan J. Whitmore, emp. E. Dunham, bds. River. 

Taylor Lucretia, widow Stephen R., Resident, h Howell. 

Thorn Warren, (Owego) r 21, farmer on shares with James Nelson, Jr. 75. 

Townsend James, (Owego) r 16, farm laborer. 

Tripp Seymour C, watch repairer and jeweler, Main' h at Smithboro. 

Turner G. M. Dallas, carpenter and joiner, h Cole. 

Turner Harvey, wagon-maker, off Main, h Walnut. 

Turner Jacob, mail carrier, bds. Walnut. 

Van Demark Charles, farmer, h River. 

Van Demark Emma Mrs., milliner, bds. Main. 

Van Derraark Beniah, r g, farm laborer. 

Van Dermark Josiah, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, farmer 9. 

Van Deusen Ella G., teacher, bds. Main. 

Van Deusen H. Newton Rev., pastor M. E. church, h. Main. 

Van Gorder Aaron, (Hooper's Valley) r 2, farmer 30. 

Van Gorder Allen, (Hooper's Valley) r 28, farmer 126. 

Van Gorder Edward S., r 16, sawyer. 

Van Gorder Esther, r 16, widow Enos, resident. 

Van Gorder George, r i, farmer. 

Van Gorder John, (Waverly) r i, farm laborer. 

Vannatta William, (Owego) r 18, farm laborer. 

Van Ness Belle H. Mrs., groceries and provisions. Main, h Cady ave. 

Van Ness EUas, manager of store for Mrs. B. H. Van Ness, h Cady ave. 

Van Ness John H., r 48, farmer, leases of Jos. Olmstead 150. 

Van Ness Myron, (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farmer 150. 

Van Ness William W., shoemaker. Main, h River. 

Van Norstran Andrew L., traveling salesman, h River. 

Van Norstran Dora, teacher, bds. River. 

Verguson Israel, (Owego) r 1 7, farmer. 



TOWN OF NICHOLS. I05; 



Verguson Phoebe M., (Owego) r 17, widow L. Nelson, resident. 

Vincent Oliver L., r 16, laborer. 

Wait Austin D., (Owego) r 33, farmer 86. 

WAIT GEORGE A., (Owego) r 50, farmer 75, and leases in Penn. 50. 

Wait Jeflferson, (E. Nichols) r 44, farmer. 

Wait Joseph, (E. Nichols) r 44, farmer 25. 

Walker Aaron, (Owego) r 12, farm laborer. 

Walker Eliot, (Owego) r 32, farm laborer. 

Ward Mahala, (E. Nichols) r 41, widow Abraham B., farmer 42. 

Warner Jane, (Hooper's Valley) r 4, widow Frederick, resident. 

Warner Sarah, widow Oscar T., h Walnut. 

Warwick Laura D., widow William, h Cady ave. 

Washburn Henry H., r 30, retired farmer. 

WASHBURN JOHN H., (Hooper's Valley) off r 29, farmer 50. 

Washburn Joshua, r 28, farmer 40. 

WATERMAN & METLER, blacksmiths, Main. 

Waterman Abraham, (Hooper's Valley) r 5, farm laborer. • 

WATERMAN ALONZO C, r 8, apiarist 20 swarms, and farmer 80. 

WATERMAN BENJAMIN M., (Waterman & Mettler) h Main. 

Waterman Charles, (Hooper's Valley) off r 5, farm laborer. 

Waterman Charles H., r 8, blacksmith. 

Waterman James H., r 8,!carpenter. 

WATERMAN JOHN G.", r 8, blacksmith. 

Waterman Thomas, (Hooper's Valley) farmer on shares with M. Van' 
Ness 160. 

Waterman Walter S., meat-market, Main, h do. 

Webb Vestus R. (Waverly) r i, laborer. 

Webber Andrewson A., (Hooper's Valley) r 3, farm laborer. 

Welch John F., R. R. section foreman, h River. 

Wells Charles S., painter, bds. River. 

Westbrook Levi, cigars and fruit. Main, h River. 

Wheeler Charles J., r 10, laborer. 

WHIPPLE ANDREW G., (Owego) r 33, school trustee and farmer 179. 

White Anson, (East Nichols) r 51, farmer 50. 

White Carrie H., (East Nichols) r 40, teacher. 

White Charles L., (East Nichols) r 40, farmer with his father Henry. 

WHITE DANIEL, (East Nichols) r 46, farmer 100. 

White Elizabeth A.. (East Nichols) widow Enoch, postmistress, and farm 30.. 

White Frank P., r 7, farmer with his father Piatt White. 

White George, (East Nichols) r 40, school trustee and farmer 60. 

White Harriet, r 23, widow Lyman, resident. 

White Hattie C, (East Nichols) r 43, teacher. 

White Henry. (East Nichols) r 40, farmer 185. 

White J. Lawrence, (Owego) r 22, overseer of the poor and farmer 128. 

WHITE JOSEPH W., (East Nichols) r 45, assessor and farmer 168. 

White Leonard, r 46, farmer 71. 

White Myron P., (East Nichols) farmer 50. 

White Perry F., (Owego) r 21, farmer on shares with Rachel Newland 40.. 

White Perry H., (East Nichols) r 43, farmer 100. 

WHITE PLATT, r 7, farmer 80. 

White Samuel H., (East Nichols) r 45, school trustee and farmer. 

White Wellington, r 46, farmer 125. 

White William, (East Nichols) r 43, farmer 140. 



1o6 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

WHITE WILLIAM W., (Owego) r 21,, assessor, apiarist 32 swarms and 

farmer 175. 
Whiting Edward I., (Owego) r 17, farmer 26. 
WICKHAM ALBERT, (Owego) r 16, farmer on shares with H. H. Sey-" 

mour r7o. 
Wiggins Absalom J., emp. DeGroat & Harris, h Cady ave. 
WIGGINS CLOID B., r 8, contractor andlDuilder. 
Wiggins George, r 8, carpenter and millwright. 
Wiggins Silas, gardener, h Cole. 
Wilber David, (Owego) r 32, farmer 25. 
Wilber Horace, (Owego) r 32, farmer; 

Wilbur Spencer, (Owego) r i8, farmer on shares with Mrs. E. Pitcher 125. 
Williams George, laborer, bds. Main. 
Williams George F., barber, Main, h do. 
Williams Harry G., barber, bds. Main. 
Williams Squire L., r 8, laborer. 
Williams Stephen, r 8, stone-mason. 

Wilson James M., M.D., Rev., pastor Presbyterian church, h Cady ave. 
Wilson James P., medical student, bds. Cady ave. 
Wilson John, r 49, farm laborer. 
Wilson Louisa, widow George, laundress, h Main. 
Wiswell Leon O., teacher, h Cady ave. 
"Witty Kate, (Owego) r 19, widow Thomas, resident. 
Wood Allen, (Owego) r 42, farmer 50. 
Wood Charles O., r 7, farmer 16. 
Woodard Thaddeus, (Waverly) r i, farm laborer. 

Woodruff Joseph J., (East Nichols) r 43, farmer, leases of W. White 93. 
Wright Caleb, r 8, prop. Dunham's mill. 
Wright James, (Owego) r 17, farm laborer. 
Wright Nancy W., r 8, carpet-weaver. 
Yarrington James, (Owego). r 20, farm laborer. 
Young O. Warren, (Owego) r 16, school trustee and farmer 90. 



OlATEGO. 



iN:«sir>Ej coiei>oieA.Tioiv. 

(J^or explanations, etc., see page 3, part second^ 

(PostoflRce address is Owego, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

-Abel Alonzo, carpenter, h 84, McMaster. 
Abel Frank W., clerk, bds., McMaster, cor. Temple., 
Aberhart Peter, baker, h over 56 North ave. 

ADAMS HORACE B., tinwork, stoves and plumbing, 40 Lake, h 18 Ross; 
-Adams Joseph, retired, bds. Forsyth Block, North ave. 

:SXARK.E;Y Sc winters, IVbalegale and Retail Drngglats, O-nrego. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 107 

Adams Newton. W., printer, h Forsyth Block, North ave. 

Adams Ray, baker, h 100 Talcott. 
-AH-WA-GA HALL, G. W. Fay, agent, 203 Front. 

AH-WA-GA HOUSE, B. J. Davis prop.,. Front, cor. Church. 

Allen Alexander P., traveling salesman, h 26 George. 

Allen Charles, farmer, h n Dean's Tannery. 

Allen Edward, tanner, h n Deaji's Tannery. 

Allen Eugene, emp. Dean's Tannery, h n tannery. North ave. 

Allen Guerdon L:, collector for U. S. Express Co., h George. 

Allen James, laborer, bds. 93 Erie. 

Allen John, laborer, h 45 Erie. 

-Allen Lucius H., physician and surgeon, 140 Main, h do. ^ 

ALLEN LUCIUS H., 2nd, meat cutter, h 56 George. 

-Allen Matthew, laborer, h 47 Erie. 

Allen Matthew J., laborer, bds. 93 Erie. 

Allen Patrick, laborer, h 93 Erie. 

-Anderson Johnson M., (J. W. Jansen & Co.,) and with W. H. JBailey prod- 
uce, h over 60 Main. 

-ANDREWS GEORGE F., attorney and counselor at law, 214 Front, h 117 
Liberty. 

Andrews Philetus, farmer, h 566 Fifth ave. 

Andross & Groo, (W. W. A. and L. G.) wholesale commission fruit dealers, 
136 North ave. 

Andross Keziah, widow Stebbins, 46 Temple. 

-Andross William W., (Andross & Groo) 136 North ave, h 46 Temple. 

Anthofer Anna, teacher German, bds. 54 Liberty. 

Archibald Almon W., resident, h 35 Front. 

Archibald Charles, farmer with his father, South Side. 

Archibald Samuel, farmer 50, leases of A. N. Potter, South Side. 

-Arnold Charles E., painter, bds. 240 Temple. 

Arnold George M., brakeman, bds. 240 Temple. 

Atchison William J., clerk, bds. over 54 North ave. 

Atkins Galen H., shoemaker, li 40 Lake. 

AufFhammer Eugene, teacher of languages, h 215 Prospect. 

Augusta Lucinda, tailoress, bds. 524 Main. ' ^ 

AYER WARREN L., physician and surgeon, 207 E. Mam, h 203 do. 

Ayers Elmer, porter Park hotel, bds. do. 

Ayers Julia, widow Capt. Henry, bds. 51 Front. 

BABCOCK JOHN B,, machinest, h 240 E. Temple. 

Babcock Zachary T., clerk, h over 69 North ave. 

Bailey Deborah, widow Alexander, h 620 Fifth ave. 

Bailey Mary Mrs., tailoress, h 194 East Temple. 

BAILEY W. H. & CO. (W. J. Mawhiney) hay, grain and potatoes, 164 
North ave. 

BAILEY WILLIAM H., (W. H. Bailey & Co. and J. W. Jansen & Co.) 
overseer of the poor, h 80 East ave. 

BAIRD LEWIS J., fireman, h 10 Adaline. 

Baird Sabrina, widow John, h 10 Adaline. 

Baker Charles, brakeman, h 222 North ave. 

Baker Edwin T., clerk, h South Side. 

Baker Frank M., supt. Addison & Northern Pennsylvania R. R., h Main. 

Baker James R., farmer, h 173 North ave. 

STARKET & "WINTBilS, promptly fill Ulall and Telephone Orders. 



Io8 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

BAKER JULIA A., widow John D., h Spencer block, Lake. 

BALL JOHN P., general variety and auction, 170 Front, h 27 Front. 

Ball Mariette, widow George, bds. 5 Spruce. 

Ball William W., clerk, bds. Front. 

BANDLER ROBERT, clothing, hats, caps and gent's furnishing goods, 19. 
and 21 Lake, h 13 Park. 

Banta Alonzo H., harness-maker, h 204 Bell. 

Barber Edbert, farmer, bds. 405 Front. 

Barden Ezra D., traveling salesman, h 234 North ave. 

Barnes Clarissa Mrs., resident, bds. 313 Main. 

Barnes Eliza, widow William, resident, h 123 Liberty. 

Barnes Katie, telegraph operator, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Barnes Theodore, farmer, h 103 Liberty. 

Barnett John W., plumber, h 157 Erie. 

BARRETT JAMES M., physician and coroner. Main cor. North ave., h 6$ 
Liberty. 

Barstow Oliver A., retired, bds. McMaster. 

Bartholomew Phoebe A., resident, bds. rear 18 Adaline. 

Bartlett Oscar J., blacksmith, h 94 Talcott. 

Barton Eugene F., (G. W. Barton & Son) h over 59 North ave. 

Barton George W., cigar manuf., igt Main, h 166 Temple. 

BARTON ISAAC, (Isaac W. Barton & Co.) produce, h 71 Liberty. 

BARTON ISAAC W. & CO., (Frank H. Catlin) produce. 

Barton Maggie E., widow Festus L., bds. 473 Front. 

Barton Walton A., town clerk and book-keeper, h 202 East Temple. 

Basford Albert, lalDorer, h 76 South Depot. 

Bastord Henry, harness-maker, h near tannery, North ave. 

Basford Hiram, laborer, bds. 24 Temple. 

Basford James, shoemaker, 150 River, South Side, h do. 

Bassett James A., teller Owego Nat. Bank, h 41 Paige cor. Main. 

Battersby Joseph, retired, h 359 Main. 

Batterson Helen, clerk, bds. 38 Spencer ave. 

Bauer Caroline Mrs., dressmaker, h 26 Adaline. 

Bauer Elizabeth, dressmaker, 26 Adaline, h do.. 

Baxter Daniel M., ]3,borer, h 489 Front. 

BEACH & PARMELEE, (O. S. B. and A. W. P.) druggists, Main cor. 
North ave. 

Beach D. & Co., (G. W. Derrickson) manufs. cordage, and dealers in sport- 
ing goods, 197 Main. 

Beach Darius, (D. Beach & Co.) h over 197 Main. 

BEACH OTIS S., (Beach & Parmelee) h McMaster. 

Beach William, emp. planing-mill, h 60 McMaster. 

Beard David O., barber, bds. Lake. 

Beard James C, retired farmer, bds. 380 Main. 

Beard James C, Jr., sup't Beard Manuf. Company, h 380 Main. 

Beard Manuf. Co., (.W. A. and G. A. King) manufs. of saddlery, 24, 26 and 
28 Lake. 

Beardsley Nathaniel A., harness-maker, 291 Prospect. 

Beaumont John H., botanic drug store, 135 North ave., h do. 

Beck Charles, laborer,- h 208 North ave. 

Beck Edward, medical student, bds. T15 West ave. 

Beck Edward S., teacher, h 115 West ave. 

Beck Frank, law clerk, bds. 115 West ave. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 109 



Eeck George P., resident, bds. 115 West ave. 

Eeck Louie A., clerk, bds. 115 West ave. 

Becker Delevan, conductor Erie R. R., h Spencer Block, Lake. 

Becker Fayette A., carpenter, h Fifth ave. 

Beebe Hiram A., retired, h 345 E. Main. 

Beecher Frederick, baggageman, h 115 North ave. 

Beecher Lambert, emp. King & Co., bds. ti8 Temple, h at Newark Valley. 

Beeman Harman S., cartman, h 117 North ave. 

Beers Charles, farmer 150, h 221 Main. 

Beers Edwin W., carpenter, h South Side. 

Beers Frank J., baker, confectioner, and oyster dealer, 55 North ave., h do. 

JBelden Martha M., widow Henry A^, h Temple. 

Bell James, laborer, bds. 225 Erie. 

Bell Mary A., widow Charles T., h 394 Main. 

Bell William, laborer, h 225 Erie. 

Bennett Caroline, widow William, h 80 Temple. 

Bennett Dana, engineer, h 264 North ave. 

Bennett Harry A., clerk, bds. Temple cor. Church. 

Bennett Hattie A., dressmaker, bds. 80 Temple. 

JBennett Nathaniel, shoemaker, Fox, h do. 

Bennett Nelson R., engineer, h 102 Temple. 

Bennett William, hostler, h Main. 

Benson Hattie A., artist, bds. 112 Fox. 

Eenson Mary A., cook and laundress, h 112 Fox. 

JBenson Robert F., laborer, bds. 112 Fox. 

Benson W. Henry, gardener and sexton, h 1 1 2 Fox. 

-Bergen Bridget, widow James, saloon and confectionary, 80 So. Depot, h do. 

Bergen Timothy, laborer, h 94 Spencer ave. 

IBerger Andrew F. F., clothing and gents.' furnishing goods. Lake, h 72 Tal- 

cott. 
EERRY JOSEPH, (Sporer, Carlson & Berry) h 373 Front. 
Besler C. William, prop. Excelsior Soap Factory, cor. Temple and Liberty, 

h 95 Main. 
-Bicknell Hiram D., locomotive engineer, h Spencer, cor. George. 
Bignall Juliet C, widow Burnett B., resident, h 90 Spencer. 
Bikely Frederick, employee Gas Company, h 440 Main. 
Billings Georgie Miss, clerk, h 61 Forsyth. 
BILLINGS HENRY, pres. Owego village, h 109 Main. 
Billings John A., magr. W. U. Tel. office, 30 Lake, h 73 Liberty. 
Billings Mary E. Mrs., boarding-house, 73 Liberty, 
killings Mary E., widow William, h 61 Forsyth. 
Billings Nancy, widow Henry, h ig8 E. Temple, 
killings Richard, resident, bds. 198 E. Temple, 
killings Will, printer, bds. 73 Liberty. 
-Bing Wah, Chinese laundry, 71 North ave., h do. 
Bird Henry, laborer, h 109 Paige. 
Bird Lawrence, laborer, h 1 13 Paige. 
Birdsall Benjamin, bartender, bds. 154 North ave. 
Blair Parmelia, widow Stephen O., resident, bds. 92 Adaline. 
Bliss Francis Ai, (Bliss, Thompson & Co.) h 30 William. 
Eliss, Thompson & Co., (F. A. B., A. C. T. and George Truman, Jr.) wool 

dealers, 174 Front. 
ELOODGOOD DARWIN H., clerk U. S. Ex. Co., h 33 Park. 



110 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

BLOODGOOD FRANK S., manager Telephone Exchange, h 33 Park. 

Ely Benjamin F., laborer, h Constine's lane. 

Boardman Edward W., fireman, h over 130 North ave. 

Bodle Sarah A., widow James, bds. 66 Church. 

Bonham Emma, widow John S., bakery 3 Park, h do. 

Booth Fred E., telegraph operator, bds. Delphine. 

Booth Celestia, widow of Ransom, h 92 Liberty. 

Bostwick Lewis W., farmer 100, h 61 Talcott. 

Boughton William H., painter, h 45 Adeline. 

Bourke John, laborer, 289 Front. 

Bouquet Albert, saloon and restaurant, 13 Lake, h do. 

Bouquet Frank, emp. Drill Works, h n Dean's Tannery. 

Bouquet George, tanner, h n Dean's Tannery. 

Bowen Abbey A., dressmaker, over Owego Nat. Bank, h do. 

Bowen FrankUn L., resident, h 236 North ave. 

Bowen Timothy, laborer, h West ave. 

Boyd Mary, widow Andrew, bds. T34 Talcott. 

Boylen Frank F., clerk, h over 72 North ave. 

Bradbury Amanda L., widow Charles, h 89 William. 

BRADLEY CHAUNCEY A., market gardener, h South Side. 

Brady John, laborer, h 36 John. 

Brady Thomas F., recording clerk county clerk's office, h 162 West ave> 

Brainard Burnette E., clerk, bds. 249 Prospect. 

Brainard Henry C, printer, h 249 Prospect. 

Brant F. Lester, clerk, bds. 195 Main. 

Brant Hiram H., liquor dealer, 169 Main, h 70 Liberty. 

Brant Julia, dressmaker, 122 River, South Side, h do. 

Brant Nelson, saloon, 195 Main, h do. 

Bravo Eugene J., clerk, bds. over 23 Lake. 

Bridgman Alfred T., traveling auditor D. L. & W. R. R., h Main. 

Briggs Belle M., widow George N., h 359 Front. 

teriggs Diana G., M. D , widow Isaac S., resident, h 5 Park. 

Briggs Mary L., M. D., physician, 5 Park, h do. 

Briggs N. Smith, farmer, bds. 5 Park.- 

Briggs William F.. brakeman, h 204 East Temple. 

Brink Edward T., well-driver, h 448 Front. 

Brink Eliza D., widow Nelson, market garden, fruit nursery, etc., h 577' 

Main. 
Brink John, laborer, h Canal. 

Britenbaker Jennie, widow George, saloon and restaurant, Delphine, h do. 
Brobasco Westbrook G., farm laborer, h South Side. 
Brockway Francis E., deputy county treas., teller First Nat. Bank, h 24. 

Paige. 
BROCKWAY LEON L., prop, parlor job printing house, 34 Lake, bds. 24. 

Paige. 
Brooke James W., tailor, h 29 Temple. 
Brooks Chester P., traveling salesman, bds. 153 Temple. 
Brooks Chloe M., deputy county clerk, Court House, h 153 Temple. 
Brooks David, locomotive engineer, h over 72 North ave. 
Brooks Edward P., clerk, bds. North ave. 
BROOKS HORACE A., justice of the peace and conveyancer, over igr 

Main, h 153 Temple. 
Brooks James L., mason, h Gere. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. Ill 



Brooks Lucy G., widow Benjamin, h 153 Temple. 

Brooks Martha, resident, bds. 153 Temple. 

Brooks M. Mandane, resident, bds. 153 Temple. 

Brott Anna, widow John W., nurse, 162 West ave. 

Brott Anthony P., farmer 15 and leases of Peter Brott 36, h 82 Temple. 

Brott Joseph, porter Ahwaga House, h 121 Franklin. 

Broughman R. Frank, book-keeper, h 67 West ave. 

Brown Abram, laborer, "h 73 Fox. 

Brown Charlotte M., widow Frederick, h 18 Front. 

Brown Delia, widow James, millinery, 67 North ave., h do. 

Brown EbenezerS., traveling salesman, h 122 West ave. 

Brown Edward, farmer, h 273 North ave. 

BROWN GEORGE, (L. & G. Brown) h off North ave. near S. C. R. R.. 

round house. 
BROWN H. CORYDON, book-keeper Owego Mutual Benefit Association, 

Lake, h 78 Chestnut. 
Brown John, hotel and restaurant, and liquor dealer, 171 Main, h do. 
Brown John J., butcher, h over 82 North ave. 
BROWN L. & G., (Lyman & George) farmers 50, apiarists 135 swarms, and 

manufs. of apiarist's supplies, off North ave. n S. C. R. R. round house. 
BROWN LYMAN, (L & G. Brown) h off North ave. n S. C. R. R. round': 

house. 
Brown Lyman, farmer, bds. 273 North ave. 
Brown Mary E. Mrs., h 1 1 1 Paige. 
Brown M. J., clerk Central House, bds. do. 

BROWN P.\TRICK, tel. operator D. L. & W. depot, h 182 River, S. Side. 
Brundage Daniel, blacksmith, h John R. 
Bruneman August, laborer, h 268 North ave. 
' Bryan Esther C., widow George H., dressmaking, Spencer block, Lake, h do.- 
Buckbee Frances, widow Ezra, h 364, Front. 
BUCKBEE, PETERSON, WOOD & CO., (P. C. Peterson, C. L. Wood, . 

C. E. Schoonmaker, and F. J. Burgess) dry goods, carpets and millinery,. 
190 and 192 Front. 
BufFum Charles, drug clerk, h Paige. 
Buffum Edward, bar- tender, h over 167 Main. 
Buffum Ellen E., widow George W., h 20 Paige. 
Bulloch Lewis, barber, bds. 63 Spencer ave. 
Bunzey Adelbert T., clerk, bds, 36 William. 
BUNZEY JOHN H., salesman, h 36 William. 
Bunzey Nelson P., farmer, h Pumpelly, So. Side. 
Burbank Horace J., apprentice, bds. 70 Spencer. 
Burbank Joseph T., baker, h 70 Spencer ave. 
Burdick Edgar L., harnessmaker, h r 38 Temple. 
Burdick Lewis C, cleaning and dying, 67 Fox, h do. 
BURGESS FRANK J., (Buckbee, Peterson, Wood & Co.) h Fox cor„ 

Liberty. 
BURNETTE CHARLES R., printer. Gazette o^act, h 62 Liberty. 
Burns Nellie T., saleslady, bds. 530 Main. 
Burrows James, restaurant and saloon, 218 Front, hdo. 
Burt Martha, widow James M-, h 359 Front. 
Burton Nathaniel T., bakery, 61 North ave. h do. 
Burton Reuben E. Rev., pastor First Bapt. church, h 19 Ross. 
Bush James L., peddler, h Constine's Lane. 



112 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Butler James, barber, 65 North ave., h 89 Fox. 

•Cable Edmund, baggagemaster, bds. 289 Main. 

•CABLE FREDERIC O., postmaster, h 289 Main. 

Cafferty Edwfird, gardener, h Water. 

Catferty Margarett, widow William J., bds. Water. 

'Cain Patrick, laborer, h John R. 

■Caley Charles, farm laborer, h 18 Adaline. 

Calkins Benjamin S., emp. D. L. & W. R. R, bds. Dugan House. 

'Cameron Charles, painter, h 98 Spencer ave. 

Cameron Charles A., resident, bds. 208 E. Temple. 

Cameron Delray A , clerk, h 61 Liberty. 

Cameron Frederick H., law clerk, bds. 208 E. Temple. 

■Cameron John, clerk, 208 E. Temple. 

Cameron Larne J., resident, h over 170 Front. 

Cameron Robert, retired, h over 170 Front. 

CAMP GEORGE SIDNEY, atty. at law and farm 132, h Front near Park. 

■Camp Harmon H., (H. H. Camp & Co.) h 24 Front. 

Camp H. H. & Co. (Lucy A. Camp) foundry, 136 Front. 

CAMP JOHN, baggageman, h 447 Main. 

Camp John, shoemaker, bds. 52 Fox. 

■Camp Lucy A., (H. H. Camp & Co.) widow Henry W., h 24 Front. 

CAMP MARY L. MRS., art teacher, h 259 Erie. 

Camp William, brakeman N. Y. & Erie R. R., h 368 Main. 

CAMP W. HARRISON, postal clerk, h 259 Erie! 

■CAMPBELL ARBA, tanner, dealer in phosphates and other fertilizers ; 

farm in Tiogo 300, Candor 250, in Rome, Pa., 200, h 289 Front. 
CAMPBELL'S TANNERY, A. Campbell prop., Talcott. 
Campion Edward, tinsmith, h Fulton. 
■Campion Michael, tinsmith, h 68 McMaster. 
Campion William, emp. gas company, h 495 Main. 
CARD ALBERT A., foreman contract work, h over 7 Adaline. 
■Card George, farmer in Candor 40, h 7 Adaline. 
Card Irving, farm laborer, bds. 7 Adaline. 
Carleton Edward D., gardener, h 161 Talcott. 
Carleton Fanny A., dressmaker, bds. 161 Talcott. 
Carlson John M., piano tuner, h 63 Paige. 

•CARLSON OTTO M., (Sporer, Carlson & Berry) h Paige cor. Bell. 
Carmichael Charles S., manuf., h 194 East Temple. 
■Carpenter Charles B., book-keeper 200 Front, bds. at Ah-wa-ga House. 
Carpenter CoUins A., salesman, h 38 George. 
Carrigan Henry K., tanner, h near Dean's tannery. 
Carrigg' Michael, machinist, bds. 118 Paige. 
Carrigg Patrick, yardmaster Erie R. R., h 118 Paige. 
Carter Charles, stationary engineer, h 120 River, South Side. 
Carter Frances F., hair-worker, h 89 Fox. 
-Carter Sarah Mrs., resident, h over 109 North ave. 
Cartledge Elizabeth, widow John, bds. 499 Front. 
Cartwright Estes, clerk, bds. Front. 
Case Ellis L., carpenter and painter, h 216 East Temple. 
Case Nancy, widow Chauncy F., bds. 216 East Temple. 
Casey Margarett, widow John, h ^4 Paige. . ' ; 

Casey Thomas F., laundry 210 Front,' h do. 
CasterUne Evi E., carpenter Erie R. R., h 108 Chestnut. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. II3 

Catlin Calvin H., clerk Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Catlin Charles A., wind-mills, bds. 75 Talcott. 
Catlin Charles M., supt. saw-mill, h 75 Talcott. 
CATLIN FRANK H., (I. W. Barton & Co.) bds. 337 Front. 
Catlin John, clerk, bds. North ave. 
Catlin Mary E., dressmaker 75 Talcott, bds. do. 
Catlin Sarah E., dressmaker 75 Talcott, bds. do. 
Catlin Thomas, laborer, h 228 North ave. 
Caughlin Catherine, widow Patrick, h 31, Erie. 

*CAULDWELL & GRAY, (J. A. C. and J. C. G.,) engines, boilers, cast- 
ings, mill-work, and boiler-iron jails, McMaster cor. Delphine 
CAULDWELL JAMES A., (Cauldwell & Gray) h 56 Spencer ave. 
Cauldwell James A., Jr., clerk, bds. 56 Spencer ave. 
CENTRAL HOUSE, W. G. Gardener, manager, cor. Main and Lake, 

Free buss to all trains. 
Chaffee Caleb J., resident, h 122 Main. 
Chaffee Catherine, widow Barney, h off Water. 
Chaffee Martha, dressmaker, bds. off Water. 
Chamberlain Lee N. & Son, (Stephen) boots and shoes, Chaaiberlain block, 

Lake. / 

Chamberlain Lee N., (L. N. Chamberlain & Son) wholesale boots and shoes 
Lake, h 3 1 7 Front. ' 

Chamberlain Stephen, (L. N. Chamberlain & Son) wholesale boots and shoes 
Lake, h 37 Paige. ' 

Chambers George, bartender, bds. i6r North ave. 
Chappel Frederick, emp. King &Co., bds. 14 West ave. 
Chappel Hattie, tailoress, bds. 14 West ave. 
Chappel Lyman, retired, h 14 West ave. 
Chappell Matilda, widow William, laundress, 100 Talcott. 
Chatfield George S., (Storrs, Chatfield & Co.) h 149 Front. 
Chatfield John R., (Storrs, Chatfield & Co.) h 44 Front. 
Chatfield Lucy B., widow of Thomas I., h 337 Front. 
Cheeks Abraham, tinsmith, h 240 Prospect. 
Cheeks Ellen, resident, h 238 Prospect. 
Cheeks Enoch J., laborer, h 263 Prospect. 
Cheeks Moulton, carpenter, h 508 Main. 
Cheeks Samuel L., laborer, h 240 Prospect. 
Chillson Hope Miss, resident, h 15 Temple. 
Chitry Charles E., postal clerk, h"3i8 Front. 
Chitry Francis, silversmith, h 374 Main. 
Chitry William F., traveling salesman, bds. 374 Main. 
Chittenden Josie M., widow W. Gus, bds. 147 Main. 
Church Lewis W., clerk, h Fifth ave. 

CITY STEAM LAUNDRY, (J. B. Keeler and J. A. Mabee) 83 North ave. 
CLARK C, A. & H. A., attys. and counselors at law, Academy Bldg., Court. 
CLARK CHARLES A., (C. A. & H. A. Clark) h Main. 
Clark Fred, painter, h 16 Paige. 

CLARK H. AUSTIN, (C. A. & H. A. Clark) h Main. 
CLARK HERMAN C, confectionary and tobacco, 68 North ave., h do. 
Clarke Eliza B., widow Timothy, h 53 'Liberty. 
Clarke Lizzie A., teacher, bds., 53 Liberty. 
Clem Anton, tailor, h over 76 North ave.. ' , 

CLEVELAND ALBERT P., supt. Cruciform Casket Co., h-26 W. Fox. 
S 



114 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Coakley James, telegraph repairer, h 92 Paige. 

Cobb Alanson L., emp. Casket Co., h 37 Delphine. 

Cobleigh Harrison, blacksmith, h 249 Erie. 

Cobleigh Ida J., dressmaker, bds. 249 Erie. 

Coburn Andrew, resident, h 135 Main. 

COBURN & STRAIT, (E. D. C. & E. E. S.) books, stationery and wall- 
paper, 17 Lake. 

Coburn Ebenezer. resident, h 135 Main. 

COBURN EDWARD D., (Coburn & Strait) h 67 Liberty. 

COBWEB BOTTLING WORKS, Pat. Maloney prop., cor. Paige and Fox. 

Coe Jesse W., lumber, h River, South Side. 

Coe Jesse W., Jr., lumberman with his father, bds. River, South Side. 

Cole Ida M., dressmaker, 261 Erie, bds. do. 

Cole Ira J., blacksmith, h 261 Erie. 

Cole Russell S., painter, h 84 Temple. 

Cole Smith B., carpenter, h 40 Adaline. 

COLEMAN JULIET, clothing, 9 and 11 Lake, h 212 Main. 

Coleman Louisa, widow James, laundress,, h 1 2 1 Green. 

Coleman Morris, mgr. for J. Coleman, h 212 Main. 

Coleman William, bookkeeper, 9 and 1 1 Lake, bds. Main, cor. Church. 

Colgan Christopher, cigarmaker, bds. 92 South Depot. 

Colgan Edward, drug clerk, h 7 Fox. 

Colgan Mary, widow Thomas, h 92 South Depot. 

Collins Daniel, mechanic, h 98 Paige. 

Collins Dennis, harness-maker, h 18 Paige. 

Collins Ellen, dressmaker, bds. Delphine. 

Collins John, laborei; h Delphine. 

Collins Joseph ] ., emp. Cobweb Bottling Works, bds. Green. 

CoUins Timothy, brakeman, h T09 Green. 

Collins Timothy, Jr., emp. Cobweb Bottling Works, bds. Green. 

Collins William, shoemaker. Lake, h 108 Spencer ave. 

COMFORT MELVILLE L., jeweler and optician, 25 Lake, bds. Ah-wa-ga 
House. 

Conant Frank L., carpenter, h 122 FrankUn. 

Conant James C, (Corchran & Conant) h Prospect. 

Cone Cynthia C, widow Charles, h 82 Temple. 

Congdon Daniel O., (Congdon & Robinson) h 188 Temple. 

Congdon Nettie A., widow George E., seamstress, h 102 Fox. 

Conklin Ira, teamster, h River, South Side. 

Conklin Larne H., under sheriff, Main cor. Court, h do. 

Conklyn Michael, retired, h 223 E. Temple. 

Conley Emma M., widow John, laundress, h 448 Front. 

Conlon Bridget, widow Timothy, laundress, h ri2 Green. 

Conlon John T., engineer, h ti6 Green. 

Connell John, laborer, h 109 Spencer ave. 

Connell Patrick, track-walker Erie R. R., h 23 Fox. 

Connell Thomas, laborer, h 250 East Temple. 

Connell Timothy, tanner, h Canal. 

Connelly Bridget, widow David, h 68 Paige. 

Constine Michael, resident, h 123 Green. , 

Cook Allen E., switchman, h Constine's Lane. 

Cook John, emp. casket shop, h 3 1 Fox. 

Cook John, emp. livery, h 35 Talcott. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. II J 

Cook Nelson C, locomotive engineer, h 41 Fox. 
Cook William, brakeman, h 195 East Temple. 
Cooley La Forest B., tanner, h 30 West Main. 
Cooper Byron, farmer, h 147 Talcott. 
■ Cooper Frank E., clerk, h 195 East Temple. 
Coppins Amelia E., milliner, bds. 152 Central ave. ^ 
Coppins James H., engineer, h 152 Central ave. 

Corchran & Conant, (J. T. C. & J. C.) contractors and builders, 62 Temple. 
Corchran John T., (Corchran & Conant) h 51 George. 
Corchran Nathan E., cabinet-maker, h 61 Adaline. 
Corey William H., station agent D. L". & W. R. R., h 268 Main. 
Cornell Charles, emp. foundry, h Adaline. 
Cornell Edward, laborer, h off Water. 
Cornell Edwin W., (H. W. Cornell & Son) h 18 John. 
Cornell Elizabeth, widow David, bds. 29 Talcott. 
Cornell Harmon W., (H. W. Cornell & Son) h 112 Chestnut. 
Cornell H. W. & Son, groceries and provisions, 405 Main. 
Corrigan John, Jr., traveling salesman, bds. 117 Chestnut. 
Corrigan John, clerk, h Chestnut. 
Corseni F., fruit dealer, 10 Lake. 
Cortright Albert, grocery, North ave., h 22 Fox. 
Cortright Charles E., brakeman, bds 237 Erie. 
Cortright Dorcas, widow Nicholas, h 44 West Main. 
CORTRIGHT HOUSE, J. A. Cortright & Son, props. 157 North ave. 
CORTRIGHT J. A. & SON, (Mahlon A.) props. Cortright House. 
CORTRIGHT JAMES A., (J. A. Cortright & Son) h 157 North ave. 
Cortright John, clerk, h 201 East Temple. 
Cortright John Mrs., dressmaker. 201 East Temple, h do. 
CORTRIGHT MAHLON A., (J. A. Cortright & Son) h 157 North ave.. 
CORTRIGHT REUBEN W., brakeman, h 237 Erie. 
Cortright Richard W., emp. foundry, bds. 44 W. Main. 
Cortright Theodore, groceries and provisions, 64 North ave, h 62 Liberty.. 
Corwin Estelle H., clerk, h Church. 
Corwin Harriet E., saleswoman, bds. East Main. 
Courtright Charles, emp. foundry, h 100 Franklin. 
Couton Adolph R., resident, bds. 265 Main. 
Couton Charles E., retired, h 265 Main. 
Covert Mary A., widow William H., h 232 North ave. 
COYLE WILLIAM, livery, 73 North ave., h do. 
Crabb Alice, widow Robert, h 150 Central ave. 
Crabb Daniel, emp. foundry, h 50 W. Main. 
Crabb George, hostler, bds. j 50 Central ave. 
CRABB ISAAC, market gardener, and wholesale dealer in vegetables, h 

Water. 
Crabb Robert, h 212 North ave. 
CrandalllEllis, jeweler, bds. 63 Paige. 
Crandall Morris, painter, h 265 Erie. 
Cramer Jennie W., widow Wallace E., bds. 99 Franklin. 
CRANS ABRAM F., physician and surgeon, 126 North ave., h do. 
Crans Egbert, carpenter, h 67 Central ave. 
Crater Marinda, resident, h 91 Franklin. 
Croak Thomas, liveryman, 73 North ave., bds. do. 
Croff Isaac, cartman, h 146 River, South Side. 



Il6 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Croft Charles, hostler, bds. 56 Front. 
Crowel Margaret, widow John, resident, h 50 W. Main. 
Crowley Charles, laborer, h 90, S. Depot. 
Crumley Thomas F., laborer, h 124 Paige. 
Cuddeback William A., retired, h 38 William. 
Cummings WilUam, currier, h near Dean's tannery. 
Cuneo Pietro, confectionery, 181 Front, h 8 Main. 
■Curtis Alson, conductor, h 29 Talcott. 
Curtis A. Maria, widow Oliver D., h loi Franklin. 
•Curtis Mary, widow, h 567 Front. 
Cushman Eliza, resident, h 67 Forsyth. 
Cusick John, laborer, h 129 Chestnut. 
Cutler Thomas, gardner, h Canal. 

Daggett Charles W., manager Postal Telegraph & Cable Co., bds. 34 Fox. 
DANA CHARLES, custom boot and shoe maker, 65 North ave., h 322 Front. 
Dana Lena J., saleswoman, bds. 322 Front. 
Danforth Fred, emp. King & Co., bds. 118 Temple. 
Danforth Joseph A., drayman, h Commerce. 
Daniels Emily M., widow Dr. Ezekiel, h 2x7 Main. 
Darrow Asa A., retired, h South Side. 
DARROW FRANK A., (Mead & Darrow) h South Side. 
Darrow Hill, mechanic, h 105 North ave. 
r DAVIS BURR J., prop. Ah-wa-ga House, Main cor. Church. 
Davis William, steward Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Dawes Etta, tailoress, bds. 229 Prospect. 
Dawes Joseph M., locksmith, 69 North ave., h 229 Prospect. 
Day Marvin, resident, bds. 313 Main. 
Day Warren, farm laborer, bds. 596 Fifth ave. 
Day William, farm laborer, h 596 Fifth ave. 
Dean Alanson P., retired, h 63 Paige. 

DEAN CALVIN B., livery, hack and sale stable, Church, h 30 do. 
DEAN CAMERON B., ticket agent N. Y. L. E. & W. R. R., rooms Main. 
Dean Charles R., (Shaw & Dean) h 274 Main. 
DEAN H. N. & SON, (Ransom B.) props, tannery, North ave. 
Dean James A., contractor and builder, Spencer ave., h do. 
Dean John E., produce, h 122 River, South Side. 
Dean Mary, widow H. Nelson, 255 Front. 
Dean Mortimer C, yard-master S. C. R. R., h 248 North ave. 
DEAN RANSOM B., (H. N. Dean & Son) vice-prest. Owego Nat. Bank, h 

in Adams, Mass. 
Dean Sumner R., bar-keeper Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Dearstine Charles, brakeman, bds. 124 Chestnut. 
Dearstine Elias, brakeman, bds. 124 Chestnut. 
Dearstine Jane A., widow John, h r24 Chestnut. 
Decker Abram C, laborer, h South Side. 
Decker Alexander, market gardener, h Fifth ave. 
Decker Andrew J., laborer, h Canal Front. 
Decker Frederick, emp. King & Co., bds. Canal Front. 
Decker John, soda and mineral waters. Fifth ave., h do. 
Decker John, laborer, h 220 North ave. 
Decker Morgan, night-watchman, h 553 Front. 
Decker Phoebe, widow Anson; books, stationery and wall-paper, 186 Main, 

h 472 do. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 11/ 

Decker Samuel H., laborer, h 24 Temple. 
Decker Silas, emp. foundry, h North ave. cor. Temple. 
Decker William, brakeman, h 36 VV. Main. 
Decker Victor, resident, h Main. 

Decker Ward, manager of store for Mrs. A. Decker, bds. 472 Main, 
Dee James, telegraph operator, bds. 313 Main. 
Degarmo Alonzo, billiards, South Depot, h 178 River, South Side. 
Delevan Irving J., produce and live stock. Front, h 233 do. 
DeLong John Mrs., h 105 Talcott. 
DeLong Pertilla, widow George, h 125 Talcott. 

DEMUN CLINTON L., Singer sewing machines, 155 North ave, bds. Eu- 
ropean House. 
Denison Alonzo H., laborer, h 146 River, South Side. 
Dennis Catharine, widow Charles, h 11 1 Paige. 
Dennis Mary, resident, h 223 North ave. 
Densmore Anson, farmer, h South Side. 

Densmore Ehza, widow John, bds. Delphine. * 

Densmore Franklin J., laborer, h 215 Prospect. 
Densmore John J., emp. casket company, h Delphine. 
Densmore William H., laborer, h over 168 Front. 
DEPOT D. L. & W. R. R., River, South Side. 
DEPOT N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R., North ave. 
Derrickson George W., ( D. Beach & Co.) h over 197 Main. 
Deremer Theresa A. Mrs., resident, h over 177 Main. 
De VALLIERE ERNEST, baggageman, h 55 Spencer ave. 
De Valliere Nina A., sales-lady, bds. 55 Spencer ave. 
Devine Mary, tailoress, bds. South Depot. 
DeWitt Catharine, widow Joseph, resident, h 58 Liberty. 
DeWitt EUzabeth, widow Thomas, resident, h 25 George. 
DEWITT HENRY B., saloon, 76 North ave, bds. Central House. 
Dewitt Margaret, resident, bds. 25 George. 
Deyo Jay, cartman, bds. West ave., n Creek. 
Diamond Irvin, carpenter, h 126 McMaster. 
Dibble Clement, laborer, h Division. 
Dickerson Fountain F., bartender, h Liberty. 
Dildine Albert, fireman, h 73 East ave. 
Dildine William J., cigarmaker, bds. 73 East ave. 
Dingman Henry B., painter, h Decker Block, Main. 
Dodd Thomas, railroad conductor, bds. 113 North ave. 
Dodge Alfred, retired farmer, h 387 Front. 
Dodge Edmund, upholster and furniture repairer, h 479 Front. 
Dodge Emily Mrs., h 88 Paige. 
Dodge Joseph A., clerk, h over 69 North ave. 
DoUaway Frank L. Miss, resident, h 65 Central ave. 
Donovan James H., R. K section foreman, h 18 W. Main. 
Donovan Mary A., dressmaker, 102 Paige, bds. do. 
Donovan Michael, laborer, h 102 Paige. 
Doody John, laborer, h 112 Spencer ave. 
Doody Patricki laborer, h 112 Spencer ave. 
Dooley Alice, widow James, h 1 17 Erie. 
Dooley James F., cigarmaker, bds. 117 Erie. 
Dorcas Hannah, widow Moses, h no Paige. 
Dorsey Alma J., dressmaker, 207 E. Temple, bds. do. 



Il8 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Dorsey James, painter, h T23 Chestnut. 

X)orsey Sarah E., widow Allen R., h 207 E. Temple. 

Dorsey William, tinsmith, bds. 123 Chestnut. 

DORWIN, RICH & STONE (W. E. D., G. E. R. and J. F. S.) millers 
office 177 Front, mills foot of Main. 

DORWIN WILLIAM E., (Dorwin, Rich & Stone) h Glen Mary. 

Dotson Matthew, chimney sweep, h John R. 

Doty Elijah, tailoring, cleaning and repairing, rear 63 North ave., h 69 Ada- 
line. 

Douglas Charles, traveling salesman, h over 80 North ave. 

Dowd Anna E., dressmaker, 5 Park, h do. 

Dowd Charles H., blacksmith, h 574 Main. 

Dowd Mary A., bds. 574 Main. 

DOWNS EDWIN D., D. D. S., dentist, 192 Front, h 239 do. 

Doyle Bridget, widow Patrick, h 93 Spencer ave. 

Doyle Mary, housekeeper, Pumpelly, South Side. 

Doyle Mary, widow Dennis, saloon 121 Franklin, h do. 

Doyle Peter, J., (Richards & Doyle) bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 

Drake Dolly, emp. King & Co., bds. 118 Temple. 

Drake Eli B., farmer and cooper, 74 Temple, h 95 Liberty. 

DriscoU Cornelius, blacksmith, h 279 E. Temple. 

Druckenmiller Charles, prof, music, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Duel Betsey, widow Samuel L., h 193 North ave. 

DUGAN CHARLES B., prop. Dugan House, 139-145 Front. 

DUGAN HOUSE, Charles B. Dugan, prop., 139-145 Front. 

Dugan Jeanette, widow Hugh, h Dugan House. 

DUGAN JOHN, grocer 173 Front, h 64 North ave. 

Duncan Agnes, clerk, bds. Paige. 

Duncan Stephen, carpenter, h 85 Paige. 

Dundon John, laborer, h 141 Erie. 

Dundon John, Jr., laborer, bds. 141 Erie. 

Dunham Frederick, clerk, h 191 E. Temple. 

Dunham Hannah, boarding-house, 118 Temple. 

Dunham Mahlon G., bartender, h 88 Page. 

Dunn Dennis, book-keeper. Dean's tannery, bds. Decker blk., Main. 

Dunn Jeremiah, tanner, h n Dean's tannery. 

Dunn Michael J., laborer, h 530 Main. 

Dunn Paul, currier, bds. n Dean's tannery. 

Dunn Thomas W., express messenger, bds. 530 Main. 

Dunning Catharine, widow Horace, h 322 Front. 

Duren Loren D., foreman casket company, h 3 Adaline. 

Duren W. Warren, laundrymin, bds. 109 Fox. 

Durfee Edgar S., carpenter, h 137 North ave. 

DURFEE FRANK G., cutter, also correspondent Elmira Advertiser, h 99 
Liberty. 

Durkee Charles R., carpenter, h 32 Main. 

Durphy Lyman D., retired lumber dealer, h Durphy block, Lake. 

DURUSSEL & SON, (L. F. & G. A.) jewelers, 35 Lake. 

DURUSSEL GEORGE A., (Duressel & Son) h 275 Main. 

DURUSSEL LEWIS F., (Durussel & Son) h 191 E. Temple. 

DUTCHER MERRITT T., physician and surgeon, over 15 Lake, h do. 

Dwelle & Link, (J. C. Dwelle and C.A. Link) Clothing, Front. 

Dwelle Clinton W., clerk, bds. 249 Front. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. II9 

Dwelle Jefferson C, (Dwelle & Link) h 249 Front. 

Earsley Belle Mrs., dressmaker, Commerce, h do. 

Earsley Harriet, resident, h 259 McMaster. 

EARSLEY JOHN F., drayman, h Commerce. 

Easton John M., resident, bds.. Main. 

EASTON DAVID T., lawyer, over 168 Front, h 571 E. Main. 

Eastwood Charles K., clerk, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 

Eberhart George D., Lockwood Mail and express, 43 Talcott, h do, 

Eckert A. F., conductor, h over 58 North ave. 

Eckter Frank, drayman, bds. 188 West ave. 

Eckter Fred, resident, 188 West ave. 

Eckter Louis, stone mason, h 188 West ave; 

Eckter Marvin, well driver, bds. t88 West ave. 

Eddie Ester A., widow David S., cook, h 102 Fox. 

Eddy Wilber H., laborer, h 206, North ave. 

Edson George, carpenter, h over 107 North ave. 

Eldridge Mrs., widow James, h Front. * 

Ellis Alexander D., manuf. shirts, and agent for John Wanemaker, h Church. 

ElUs A. H. Mrs., milliner, h Front. 

EUis Lydia J., widow Virgil, 34 Paige. 

Ellis Stella A., clerk, h 34 Paige. 

ELLIS WILLIAM H., (Goodrich & Co.) bds. 271 Front. 

Elston George, laborer, h over 86 North ave. 

Ely Alfred G., (Ely Brothers) h Front. 

Ely Brothers, (Alfred G., Charles C. and Frederick) Ely's cream balm, 

235 Greenwich street, New York. 
Ely Charles C, (Ely Brothers) h Front. 
Ely Frederick, (Ely Brothers) h Front. 
Embody Abram, resident, bds. 7 Adaline. 
EMERY DAVID H., (Raymond & Emery) h 56 West ave. 
Emery Paul, h 52 Fox. 
EMPIRE SOAP WORKS, (James B. Keeler, prop.) 191 McMaster, office 

83 North ave. 
Engelbrcckt Peter, pianos, h rear 182 River, South Side. 
Erie Express Co., Foster N. Mabee, agent, 18 Lake. 
EUROPEAN HOUSE, John Hayes, prop., 151 North ave. 
Evans Andrew, butcher, h 160 McMaster. 
Evans Charles W., baggage-master, h 53 Paige. 
Evans Josiah R., carpenter, h 4 William. 
Everhart Peter, baker, h over 56 North ave. 
Every William B., 62 North ave., wholesale liquors, h over do. 
Ewalt — , tailor, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Excelsior Soap Factory, C. W. Beseler prop., 37 Temple. • 

Fahey, Michael, laborer, h 133 Erie. 
Fairchild Samuel F., Agent, hats, caps and gents.' furnishings, 27 Lake, h 55 

Ceiitral ave. 
Fancher Herman P., wood-turner, h 55 Talcott. 
Farnham Albert S., teamster, bds. 235 E. Temple. 
Farnham Melissa, widow Edwin, h 235 E. Temple. 
FAY GEORGE W., excise commissioner, and insurance; 203 Front, h 334 

Main. 
Ferguson Frederick, emp. foundry, bds. 151 Talcott. 
Ferguson Irving, emp. foundry, bds. Talcott. 



I20 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Ferguson Laura, widow John, resident, h 113 Liberty. 

Ferguson Royal B., for^'man Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h 7 George. 

FERGUSON T. JEFFERSON, carpenter, h 151 Talcott. 

Ferris Samuel W., pattern maker, h ito McMaster. 

Fiddis Emeline Mrs., bds. 104 West ave. 

Fiddis Lucy A., teacher, bds. 93 Franklin. 

Fiddis Lucy G., widow Robert, resident, h 93 Franklin. 

Field John H., conductor, h 13 George. 

Finch Smith, carpenter, h 170 West ave. 

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF OWEGO, (George Truman, Sr., prest., 

W. S. Truman, cash., F. E. Brockway, teller) 179 Front. 
Fisher George, sewing machine repairer, North ave., h South Erie. 
Fisher James, molder, h 113 Liberty. 
Fitzgerald Catherine, widow, Morris, resident, 120 Fox. 
Fitzgerald Deborah, cleaning and dying, 105 Fox, h do. 
Fitzgerald Edward, emp. Drill Works, h 43 Temple. 
Fitzgerald Thomas, painter, bds. 120 Fox. 
Fitzgibbons John, watchman, h Bell. 

Flamer Isaiah, barber, 154 Front, h 184 River, South Side. 
Flamer Julia, widow Jeremiah, h 184 River, South Side. 
Flanigan James P., laborer, h 21 Adaline. 
Flanigan Mary, dressmaker, bds. 2 r AdaUne. 
Flanigan Patrick, laborer, h ro6 South Depot. 
Flanigan Thomas F., machinist, bds. 21 AdaUne. 
Foley James, laborer, h 113 Spencer ave. 

Foot Frederick, bridge builder, bds. Lackawanna House, South Side. 
Foot Sarah M. Mrs., dressmaker, bds. River, South Side. 
Ford George, resident, bds. over 17 Lake. 
Ford Lewis, livery, 132 North ave., h do. 
Ford Lucius, carpenter, h 607 Main. 
Forgason Charles, carpenter, bds. over 19 Lake. 
FORGASON THADDEUS C, V. S., veterinary surgeon, stable Central 

ave. rear Park Hotel, h over 19 Lake. 
Forsyth Charles E., clerk, bds. 245 Erie. 
FORSYTH ELDRIDGE, retired, h 67 Forsyth. 
Forsyth Eleazur V., emp. Erie R. R., h 11 Adaline. 
Forsyth Eva B., dressmaker, bds. 11 Adaline. 
Forsyth George F., painter, bds. 245 Erie. 
FORSYTH GILBERT T., decorative painter, h 435 Main. 
FORSYTH HUBBARD T., house and decorative painter and paper-hanger, 

h 24s Erie. 
FORSYTH JAMES, resident, h 113 Front. 
Forsyth Rachel, widow George, bds. 60 Forsyth. 
FORSYTH WILLIAM S., landscape, frescoe and decorative painter, h 60 

Forsyth. 
Foster & Hampton, (J. F. & J. W. H.) barbers, r29 North ave. 
Foster Joseph, (Foster & Hampton) h 129 North ave. 
FOSTER LEONARD, r 27, prop, saw and feed-mill, all kinds of pine and 

oak lumber on sale at lowest market prices, farmer 135, h McMaster. 
Foster William C, clerk, h Fulton. 
Fowley Michael, laborer, h 216 North ave. 
Fox Lydia N., widow Edward, carpet-weaver, h 142 Central ave. 
Fox Stuart E., emp. foundry, h 115 Chestnut. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 121 



Fralley Robert, baggageman, h 144 Central ave. 

France Francis, amp. casket shop, bds. 142 Central ave. 

FRANK JOHN, physician, 115 Main, h do. 

Franz Conrad, tailor, h Gere. 

Fraser Daniel, traveling salesman, bds. 143 Temple. 

Fraser Reuben, farmer 140, h 143 Temple. 

Fredenburg Catharine, widow Virgil, h 265 North ave. 

Fredenburg Edward E., law student, bds. 215 North ave. 

Fredenburg Fred J., laborer, h 215 North ave. 

Freehill Maria, widow Patrick, boardmg-house and lodging, 64 South Depot. 

Freight-house and Office Erie R. R., South Depot, head Spencer ave. 

French Charles O., farm laborer, h Constine's Lane. 

French Orrin, laborer, h 460 Main. 

Frisbie Sarah Mrs., laundress, h 5 Adaline. 

Fritcher George, retired, bds. 128 Temple. 

Frutchey Erastus, teamster, h Temple. 

Fulton Market., (P. Hyde and G. Saltsman) general store, 32 Fullon. 

Gaher Henry, tailor, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Gale William E., station agent S. C. R. R., h 47 George. 

Gallagher Dryden, widow WiUiam, bds. 41 Paige. 

GARDNER WILLIAM G., manager Central House, Main cor. Lake. 

Garey Henry J., brakeman, h 236 E. Temple. 

Garvey Michael, laborer, hut Erie. 

Garvey Patrick, emp. Erie R. R., h Delphine. 

Gates Anna, widow Simon, bds. 229 Main. 

Gavell Edward, cigar manuf., over 169 Main, h do. 

Gavin Catherine, resident, bds. 125 Chestnut. 

Gavin Mary, widow Patrick, h 125 Chestnut. 

Geary Patrick, laborer, h 22 Temple. 

Genung Abram C, carpenter, h 118 Franklin. 

Gere Adaline, widow Bradford, 192 North ave. 

GERE EUGENE B., attorney at law, 112 Front. 

GERE THEODORE D., (Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co.') h 118 Majn. 

GEBE, TRUMAN, PLATT & CO., (T. D. G., F. W.' T., T. C. P. and C. 

F. Johnson) manufs., " Champion " wagons, grain and fertilizer drills^ 

harrows, etc., Central ave. 
Gibbons John H., laborer, bds. Constine's lane. 
Gibson Charlotte, widow Stephen D., h 205 North ave. 
Gibson Donald, bridge builder, h 205 North ave. 
Gibson Frank, laborer, h 205 North ave. 
Gibson Sarah, widow Edward G., resident, h 127 North ave. 
Gilbert Charity, widow John H., h 115 Temple. 
Gilday Edward, clerk, bds. 54 Delphine. 
Gilday John, emp. foundry, bds. 54 Delphine. 
Gilday Michael, laborer, h 54 Delphine. 
Gilday William, emp. foundry, bds. 54, Delphine. 
Giles Chester, emp. foundry, bds. Canal. 
Gill Ellen, widow Christopher, h 16 Paige. 
Gillett Luther W., (Riley & Gillett) Front, h 114 McMaster. 
Gillett J. Fred, clerk, bds. IT4 McMaster. 
GILLSON WILLIAM H, bridge carpenter, h 116 West ave. 
Gilman Herbert, stage driver, bds: Lackawanna House, South Side. 
Gilman Milton H., prop, mill-yard, lumberland in Sullivan Co., Pa., h Front 



122 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Gilinan N. M. Mrs., millinery, 204 Front, h do. 

Ginnane Joseph, emp. foundry, h 161 West ave. 

Ginnane Mary, widow Edward, h 135 West ave. 

Ginnane Mary A., teacher, bds. 16 1 West ave. 

Ginnane Thomas, laborer, h 448 Front. 

Glaseo Thomas, gardner, h 112 Paige. 

GLEZEN OSCAR B., att'y at law, and justice of the peace, Academy. Bldg., 

Court, h 9 Front. 
Goodnough William, expressman, h 268 North ave. 

GOODRICH & CO., (J. W. Goodrich and W. H. Ellis) drygoods, 196 Front. 
Goodrich David L., surveyor, h 388 Front. 
Goodrich Frank, sewing-machine agent, h over 80 North ave. 
GOODRICH JAMES W., (Goodrich & Co.) h 27 Front. 
Goodrich Lyman T., traveling agent, h 425 Front. 
Goodrich Samuel, yard-master Erie R. R., h 123 Liberty. 
Goddspeed Eliza A., widow Joel J., h 57 Paige. 
Goodspeed Elizabeth, teacher, bds.> 57 Paige. 
Goodwill Burdett D., laborer, h 22 Temple. 
Goodwill Martha M., widow James G, h 22 Temple. 
Gordon Martha N., widow William C, resident, h 229 Main. 
Gordon Samuel, laborer, h off North ave. near S. C. R. R. round-house. 
Gorman Dorinda M., widow Capt. John, h 383 Front. 
Gorman James, switchman, bds. 64 South Depot. 

Gorman Orrin T., shipping-clerk, Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h 339 Main. 
Goss Seward, retired, h 25 Ross. 
Gotleiber Victor, policeman, bds. 88 Chestnut. 
Gould Adam C, blacksmith. Temple, h 16 do. 
Gould Appleton H., leather-cutter, h 290 Prospect. 
Gould Ephraim, retired, h Talcott. 
Gould Ephraim C, drayman, bds. 112 West ave. 
Gould Frederick, emp. Drill Works, h 87 Liberty. 
Gould Jane, widow Wilber D., h 234 Main. 
Gould Joel S., retired, h 146 TalCott. 
Gould Joseph, laborer, h Canal Front. 
Gould Marion D., emp. foundry, bds. i6 Temple. 
Gould Morris P., emp. foundry, h 8 Temple. 
GOULD WILLIAM L., blacksmith, h ri2 West ave. 
GRAND ARMY HALL, over 76 North ave. 

GRAND UNION TEA COMPANY, Milton T. Knight, agt., 42 Lake. 
Granger Cora A., teacher, bds. 135 Main. 
Grant Simon, produce, bds. 264 Main. 

Graves Henry A., news, cigars and confectionary, 49 Lake, h 62 Church. 
Gray George, painter, h Delphine. 

GRAY JOHN C, (Cauldwell & Gray) h McMaster opp. Academy. 
Gray John H., clerk, h North ave. 
Green James W., miller, h 119 Liberty. 
Greenleaf Emeline, widow John M., bds. 105 Main. 

GREENLEAF JOHN T.. physician and surgeon^ loi Main, h 105 do. 
Greenwood Frank A., printer, bds. 80 William. 

Greenwood James, custom boot and shoemaker, 188 Front, h 80 William. 
Greenwood James W., emp. foundry, bds. 80 William. 
Greenwood' John E;, emp. U. S. Express Co., bds. 80 William. 
Greenwood Lizzie M., dressmaker, 80 William, bds. do. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 123 



Griffin Emma, laundress, 138 Talcott. 

Griffin Margaret Mrs., h 148 Fox. 

GRIPPING SAMUEL B., village alderman and salesman, h 226 E. Temple. 

Grimes James, brakeman, h 27 Adaline. 

Grimes Sarah, widow James, Jr., bds. 36 William. 

Groat Abram W., confectionery and cigars, 115 North, h do. 

Groo Lines, (Andross & Groo) residence in New Jersey. 

GROSS JERRY S., lawyer, 178 Main, h do. 

Hall George H., dry goods, h 122 Main. 

Hall Granville W., carpenter, bds. Cortright House. 

Hall James D., apprentice, bds. 105 Franklin. 

Hall Mary, widow Edward, h 105 Franklin. 

Hall Michael, confectionery, h 59 Church. 

Hall William, laborer, h Water. 

Hallock Andrew J., brakeman, h 61 Forsyth. 

Hamilton Joel A., contractor and builder, h 3 Front. 

Hammond , laborer, h 136 Main. 

HAMMOND EDGAR, baker, h over 69 North ave. 
Hammond Edwin, printer, h Buckbee Block. 
Hampton James W., (Foster & Hampton) h 129 North ave. 
Handlon Jerry, saloon-keeper, bds. 133 North ave. 
Haner John, tanner, h 274 North ave. 
Hannon John, laborer, h 107 Fox. 
Hannon Patrick, laborer, 88 South Depot. 
Hannon Thomas, local mail agent, h South Depot. 

Hansen George I., book-keeper, Storrs, Chatfield & Co., h River, So. Side. 
Hanvey Eliza, resident, h 2 W. Main. 
Hanvey Hugh, retired, h 2 W. Main. 
Hanvey John, retired,, bds, 2 W. Main. 
Hanvey Rosanna, resident, 2 W. Main. 
Hard Horace, miller, h W. Main. 

HARDER EMMOTT, boots and shoes, 23 Lake, h 279 Main. 
Harding George A., farm laborer, h Pumpelly, South Side. 
Harding Grant, laborer, h 222 North ave. 
Harding Hannah T., widow Robert, h 143 Temple. 
Harding Osee, widow John, h 222 North ave. 
Harding Ward, baggageman, bds. 222 North ave. 

*HARGRAVE WILLIAM G., artist and photographer, 3.8 and 40 Record 
block. Lake, h do. ' 

Awarded First Premium at the Tioga County Fairs of 1885-1886. Satisfaction 
Guaranteed to all. 



irti. G. HPCRGRKVE. 

38 AND 40 LAKE ST., O'HfEGO. 



Copying and Enlarging of Old Pictures is one of our Special Features. Twenty-five 
Years New York City Experience. 



124 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Harold Edward, R. R. section foreman, h 149 Fox. 

Harold James J., foreman Owego Blade, h 149 Fox. 

Harrington Thomas, track foreman D. L. & W. R. R., h 122 Fox. 

Harris Scott, cashier Erie express office, h 68 Liberty. 

Harris William M., book-keeper, 180 Front, bds. 12 Liberty. 

Harris William S., resident, h 377 Main. 

Harrison James, laborer, h 24 Temple. 

Harrison John B., R. R. signal tender, h 1 1 East ave. 

Harrison Lewis, clerk, bds. 115 North ave. 

Harrison Samuel, teamster, h 36 W. Main. 

Harrison S. M. Mrs., resident, h 115 North. 

Harrison William L., harness-maker, 127 North, h do. 

Harros Daniel, cartman, h 153 Erie. 

Hart Alfred, laborer, bds. 256 Prospect. 

Hart Daniel, machinist, h 483 Front. 

Hart Horace, miller, h 12 Temple. 

Hart Lewis, laborer, h 104 South Depot. 

Hartnett Maria, resident, h John R. 

Hartnett Michael, emp. Haywood's Marble Works, h loo South Depot. 

Haskins Edward T., engineer, h 34 George. 

HASTINGS & STRATTON, (J. M. H. & E. S.) dry and fancy goods, 186 

Front. 
HASTINGS JAMES M., (Hastings & Stratton) school commissioner, h 351 

Main. 
Hastings Rebecca, widow William, bds. 351 Main. 
Haughy Robert, laborer, h 108 Green. 
Haupt Frank, emp. King & Co., bds. 118 Temple. 
Havland Harriet, widow George, h 254 North ave. 
Havland Ruth, widow Frederick, housekeeper. Spruce. 
Hawes Judson, harness-maker, bds. 133 North ave. 
Hawkins Philander, tanner, h n Dean's Tannery. 
Hayden James J., emp. King & Co., bds. 31 Delphine. 
Hayden Maggie, tailoress, bds. 87 Paige. 
Hayden Mary Mrs., resident, h 87 Paige. 
Hayden William P., retired, h 31 Delphine. 
Hayden William P., Jr., foreman King & Co., bds. 31 Delphine. 
HAYES JOHN, prop. European House, 151 North ave. 
Hayes Michael J.j peddler, h 185 E. Temple. 
Hayes Richard J., bartender, bds. European House. 
Haynes George L., painter, h 42 William. 
Hays Richard, laborer, bds. Water. 
HAYWOOD CHARLES M., marble and granite work, 80 North ave., h 42 

Temple cor. Liberty. 
Haywood Harry C, marble-cutter, bds. 42 Temple. 
Hazzard Ella, clerk, bds. 118 Temple. 
HEAD KATE Mrs., nurse, 104 West ave. 
HEAD MELINDA, widow John M., resident, h 152 Talcott. 
HEATON CARLTON R., physician and surgeon, treas. Cruciform Casket 

Company, and medical director O. M. B. Association, Park cor. Main, 

hdo. 
Hemstrought Abram V., carpenter, h 198 E. Temple. 
Herrick John J., market gardner, 577 Main, bds. do. 
Herrick Laura A., teacher, bds. 577 Main. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 125 



Hevland George W., emp. Grain Drill Works, h 242 North ave. 

HEWITT FREDERICK C, retired, h 223 Front. 

HEWITT GURDON, retired, h 223 Front. 

HIBBARD GEORGE R., crockery, 84 Front, h Spencer ave. 

Hibbard Jemima, widow Ralph, bds. 10 1 Franklin. 

Hibbard Ralph W., cabinet-maker, h 112 Franklin. 

Hickey James, cigarmaker, bds. 301 Prospect. 

Hickey John, laborer, h 301 Prospect. 

Hickey John, clerk, bds. 68 South Depot. 

Hickey Lizzie C, dressmaker, 399 Main, bds. do. 

Hickey Mame, tailoress, bds. 68 South Depot. 

Hickey Mary, widow Patrick h 68 South Depot. 

Hickey Thomas, shoemaker, h 399 Main. 

Hicks Horace H., blacksmith, h 52 Fox. 

Hierstiner Moses, resident, h 88 Chestnut. 

Hill Alfred, janitor, h William. 

HILL BROTHERS, (H. H. and C. C.) dentists, Front. 

HILL CHARLES C, Dr., (Hill Brothers) h Binghamton, N. Y. 

Hill Charles F., special claim agt. for pensions, h 354 Front. 

Hill Charles O., manuf. and dealer in lumber and shingles (estate of James 

Hill,) 89 Central ave., 99 do. 
Hill Edward, coachman, bds. William. 

Hill Fred C, atty. at law and clerk Surrogate's court, Court House, h Main. 
HILL HARRIET, widow James, h 84 North ave. 
HILL HOMER H., (Hill Brothers) bds. Dugan House. 
Hill James, (Estate) manuf. and dealer in lumber and shingles, 89 Centra! ave. 
HILL LUCY, widow Chauncey, bds. 254 E. Temple. 
Hinckley Alphonso J., restaurant and saloon, 189 Main, h do. 
Hines Belle, widow Rufus W., h 447 Main. 
Hines Louise, clerk, h 447 Main. 
Hitchcock Eugene, cartman, h Canal. 

Hoagland Alexander D., commercial traveler, h.Buckbee block. Lake. 
Hoagland Emma D., dressmaking, Buckbee block, h do. 
Hoagland James R., laborer, h John R. 
Hobler George, telephone operator, McMaster. 
Hobler Philip, engineer, h 255 McMaster. 
Hodge Caroline A., widow Henry J., resident, h 86 Temple. 
Hodge Ella A., dressmaker, 86 Temple, bds. do. 
Hodge Frederick S., painter, h 41 Temple. 
Hodge Henry J., painter, h Water. 
Hodge Joseph, laborer, h Constine's Lane. 
Hogan Catharine, widow Philip, h 38 W. Main. 
Hogan Catharine M., dressmaker, 60 Delphine, bds. do. 
Hogan James, laborer, h 60 Delphine. 
Hogan James J., fireman, bds. 60 Delphine. 
Hogan John F., second hand store, 57 North ave., h do. 
Hogan Roger P., reporter, h 38 W. Main. 
Hoghey Sarah, widow James, h 118 Fox. 
Holes George, carpenter and saw filing, 7 Park, h do. 
HoUenback David J., farmer.h 1 1 7 North ave. 
Hollenback Sisters, (Mary and Alice) farm 200, h 412 Front. 
Hollensworth Jeremiah M., barber 22 Lake, h 158 Temple. 



126 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Hooper Warren, tanner, h 62, George. 

Hopkins John, cigar-maker, bds. Park Hotel. 

Horgan Jerry, retired, h 56 Delphine. 

Horgan Katie, dressmaker, 56 Delphine, bds. do. 

Horgan Mary, widow John, h 56 Delphine. 

Horigan Daniel J., prop. Erie House, 70 South Depot: 

Horn Eva, widow Matthias, bds. Gere. 

Hornbeck Cornelius F., machinest, h 273 Erie. 

Horrigan Margaret, widow Michael, tailoress, h 152 Green. 

Horrigan William, barber, 152 North ave., h Green. 

Hortnet Andrew, erap. foundry, bds. 109 Spencer ave. 

Hortnet Mary, laundress, h 109 Spencer ave. 

Horton John J., resident, h 105 North ave. 

Hoskins Franklin F., machinest, h 8 Temple. 

Hoskins James B., delivery clerk freight depot, h 65 Spencer ave. 

Hoskins Mary M., widow Fayette F., bds. 223 East Temple.. 

HOSKINS WATSON L., insurance and jeweler, 185 Front, h 311 Main. 

Houk Cora B., book-keeper, 184 Main, bds. 122 Temple. 

Houk Frederick G., clerk, bds. 122 Temple. 

Houk Harry, clerk, bds. 131 Talcott. 

Houk Jennie M., book-keeper, 184 Main, bds. 122 Temple. 

HOUK JONATHAN S., hardware, 184 Main, h 122 Temple. 

Houk Lewis C, tinsmith and plumber, h 131 Talcott. 

*HOUSE EPHRAIM H., coal, wood and lumber dealer, and farmer 75, 

office 229 McMaster, h 220 .Main. 
House Oakley, clerk, h 57 Church. 
House Oakley A., horse farrier, h 76 South Depot. 
Hover Robert, produce buyer, h 274 North ave. 
Howard Orville, carpenter, h 7 Spruce. 
Howe Olin R., pastor Park Cong, church, bds. 290 Main. 
Howe Rufus, farmer, h 45 West Main. 
Howe Ransom, cartman, h 115 Temple. 
HUBBARD & KING, (I. M. H. & O. G. K.) furniture and undertaking, 

29 Lake. 
Hubbard Charles, emp. foundry, h rear 59 Church. 
Hubbard Emeline M., widow Henry N., resident, h 275 Main. 
Hubbard Henry D., clerk, 210 Front, h 160 Temple. 
Hubbard Thomas, barber, Lake, h 60 Spencer ave. 
HUBBARD TRUMAN M., (Hubbard & King) h Lake. 
Hubbard Willis, emp. foundry, bds. rear 59 Church. 
Huber Albert D., (Nichols & Huber) h 161 Main. 
Hugaboone Matthias, laborer, h 460 Main. 
Hughs Almira Mrs., laundress, h 32 Adaline. 
Hughs George, stationary engineer, h John R. 
HULL ALFRED H., resident, h 120 Chestnut. 
Hull Byron O., resident, bds. 120 Chestnut. 
Hull Frederick K., retired, h over 17 Lake. 
Hull Hattie R., teacher, bds. 340 Main. 
Hull Margaret S., teacher, bds. 340 Main. 
Hull Mary A., h 340 Main. 

Hulslander Levi T., dry and fancy goods, 59 North ave., bds. Central House. 
HUMISTON FRANK M., (White & Humiston) h over 194 Front. 
Hunt Arthur' E., wind-mills and pumps, 134 Front, bds. Dugan House. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 127 

HoUister Charles J., silversmith and sewing machine agent, Fox cor. Central 

ave., h do. 
HoUister George W., clerk, bds. 283, Prospect. 

HoUister Joseph D., painter, Canal, h do. , 

HoUister Julius, silversmith, and sewing machine agt.. Fox cor. Central ave., 

h do. 
HoUister Mercy, widow Horace J., h Canal. 
HoUister Myron E., printer, h 283 Prospect. 
HoUister William S., painter, h Canal. 
Holmes Oscar H., coachman, h 104 Paige. 
Holmes Thomas H,, clerk, bds. 358 Front. 
Holt Mary, widow Edwin H., resident, h 94 Fox. 
Home Rufus C, mason. Main, h do. 
Hooker Archie S., carpenter, h 113 Franklin. 
Hooker Warren, bridge carpenter, h George. 
Hunt Emily J., widow William, h 14 Lake. 
Hurlburt E. Burritt, flour, h 211 Main. 

Hutchins Frank F., United States express agent, h 314 Main. 
Hutchinson Alice M., teacher, bds. 232 E. Temple. 
Hutchinson James, carpenter, 232 E. Temple, h do. 
Hutchinson WiUiam, watch-maker, bds. 243 Main. 
Hyde & Winters, (C. H. H. and J. B. W.) groceries and provisions, Front 

cor. Court. o 

Hyde Charles H., (Hyde & Winters) h 358 Front. 
Hyde Earl, telephone operator, h Main. 
Hyde Earl Mrs., dry goods and notions. Main. 
Hyde Francis Mrs., bds. 67 Erie. 
Hyde Merritt, emp. U. S. Express Co., h 91 Talcott. 
Hyde Nelson H., wood-worker, 135 Talcott, h do. 
Hyde Otis B., sup't cemetery, h 243 Main. 
Hyde Perry, book-keeper, Hyde & Winters, also prop. Fulton Market, h 

Main cor. Fulton. 
Hymes Edgar W., miller, h W. Main near Mill. 
IngersoU Charles A., teamster, h 18 Lake. 
Isenburg WiUiam, cartman, h 190 River, South Side. 
Jackson John, dentist, 12 Lake, h do. 
Jackson John T., photographer, 12 Lake,- bds. do; 
Jackson Lois M., widow George W., dressmaker, 63 Liberty, h do. 
Jackson Sarah, widow James, h Commerce. 
Jackson W. Mianda, widow Harvey, h West ave., near creek. 
Jansen Jesse W., (J. W. Jasen & Co.) also physician and "surgeon, 60 North 

ave., h do. 
JANSEN J. W. & CO., (W. H. Bailey and J- M. Anderson) drugs, medi- 
cines, and paints, 60 North ave. 
JENKS ELIZA J., widow Sabin M., resident, h 15 Front. 
JEWETT HARRY, retired, h 108 Liberty. 
JOHNSON ABIGAIL M., caterer, widow Joshua C, h 459 Main. 
Johnson Calvin, laborer, h 225 Prospect. 
Johnson Caroline, widow David, resident, h 45 Front. 
Johnson Charles W., retired, bds. 32 William. 
Johnson Cyrene Mrs., resident, h 81 Liberty. 

Johnson Edward J., groceries and provisions, 100 North ave., h North ave., 
cor. Chestnut. 



128 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Johnson Edward S., etnp. agricultural works, h over loo North ave. 
JOHNSON FRANCES M., music teacher, also caterer for weddings, parties 

and private teas, Saratoga potatoes furnished to dealers, h 459 Main. 
Johnson Frank H. Mrs., resident, h 85 North ave. 
Johnson Harlen F., resident, h 275 E. Temple. 
Johnson Henry, horse-trainer, h 98 Spencer ave. 
Johnson Hiram R., resident, h 12 Talcott. 
JOHNSON HORACE A., painter and paper-hanger, and decorative 

work, 5 2 George, h do. 
Johnson James H., postal clerk, h 358 Main. 
Johnson Lottie G., teacher; bds. 358 Main. 
Johnson Thomas D. Rev., pastor St. Patrick's church, h Main. 
Johnson Winfield, drug clerk, h 358 Main cor. Ross. 
Jones Albert, laborer, h 493 Front. 
Jones George W., mason, h 517 Front. 
JONES JAMES E., carpenter, pattern and general job shop, 191 McMaster, 

h 116 Franklin. 
Jones John, lumber at Nanticoke, Pa., h 41 Front. 
Jones John B., moulder, h 254 E. Temple. 
Jones Moses C., laborer, bds. 69 Fox. 
Jones Peter, coachman, h 96 Spencer ave. 
Jones Pierson, laborer, h 69 Fox. 
joslyn H. B., cabinet-maker, h 118 Temple. 
Joslyn Hulda Mrs., resident, h over 57 North ave. 
JOSLYN JUDSON, bridge carpenter, h 7 Hill. 
Kaley Charles, laborer, h 1 1 Fox. 
Kaley John W., emp. King & Co., h 90 Talcott. 
Xaley William H., carpenter and stone mason, h over 177 Main. 
Kanane Frank, gardener, bds. 43.Delphine. 
Kanane Mary, tailoress, bds. 43 Delphine. 
Kanane Patrick, laborer, h 43 Delphine. 
Keefe Owen, blacksmith, h 283 E. Temple. 
XEELER ALBERT H., contractor and builder, and dealer in lime, cement 

and fertilizers, h Temple cor. Central ave. 
JKeeler Charles P., mason and contractor, h rear 68 Paige. 
KEELER JAMES B., (City Steam Laundry) prop. Empire Soap Works, 

Temple cor. Central ave. 
KEITH GEORGE W., brakeman, h 15 East ave. 
3CEITH MARY B., widow Luther T., bds. 15 East ave. 
Kellogg Charles T., contractor and builder, h 262 Prospect. 
Kellogg Julia, widow Charles, h 73 Forsyth. 
Kellogg Ulysses P., carpenter, h 22 Fulton. 

JKelly Julia F., widow Frederick P., dressmaker, 246 E. Temple, bds. do. 
Kelly Matthew, laborer, h 1 1 2 Green. 
Kempson Emily P., widow Peter T.. h 80 McMaster. 
Kendall Frank B., traveling salesman, h 96 Franklin. 
Kennedy Lee, insurance, h 73 West ave. 
Kennedy Peter G , barber, h 106 Paige. 

KENYON ALBERT J., chief engineer, U. S. Navy, h 163 Temple. 
KEN YON JAMES, retired, h 163 Temple. 
Kenyon Joel C, druggist, 5 Lake, h do. ^ 
JKershner Eugene K., clerk Dugan House, bds. do. 
JCetchum John, hack driver, h Main. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 1 29 



Ketchum La Fayette F. Rev., Reformed Methodist, h 92 Franklin. 

Kettle John, porter Dugan House, bds. do. 

Kidder James H. Rev., rector St. Paul's Church, h 100 Main. 

Kidder Phoebe Mrs., resident, h 195 North ave. 

Kiernan Margaret, dressmaker, bds. Canal. 

Kiernan Patrick, laborer, h Canal. 

Kile Lowell E., laborer, h over 67 North ave. 

Kimball Ebenezer, bridge builder, h 126 Mc Master. 

Kimball Helen, widow Calvin S., artist, bds 425 Main. 

King & Co., (W. A. and G. A. K.) manufs. of and wholesale dealers in har- 
nesses, 24, 26 and 28 Lake. 

King Charles H., barber, Ah-wa-ga House, bds. 112 Fox. 

King George A., (King & Co.) h 5^ Paige. 

KING ORLANDO, (Hubbard & King) county supervisor, bds. Ah-wa-ga 
House. 

King Seth L., machinist, h 234 Main. 

King William A., (King & Co.) h 250 Front. 

King William H. Rev., retired Bapt., h 369 Front. 

Kingcade Charles, shoemaker, h 90 Paige. 

Kingcade Charles Mrs., dressmaker, go Paige, h do. 

Kingfield Ellen Mrs., mailing clerk, postoffice, h 184 E. Temple. 

Kingfield Fanny B., book-keeper, 196 Front, h 184 E. Tertiple. 

KINGMAN LEROY W., editor and pub. Owego Gazette, h 2 Academy. 

Kingman Lyman R., bartender, h North ave. 

Kingman Maria L., widow Leroy W., h 260 Main. 

Kinney Susan J., widow J. Alphon.so, h 18 Fulton. 

Kinney Willis D.,. printer, bds. 18 Fulton. 

Kipp George, butcher, h 1 1 1 North ave. 

Kline Orion, carriage- maker, h 144 Temple. 

Knapp Maria R., widow Dr. Jerome, bds. Front. 

Knight Catharine, -widow Cornelius, h 56 Forsyth. 

KNIGHT ELIZABETH, dressmaker, bds. 59 Church. 

Knight Mary J., widow Moses, h 59 Church. 

KNIGHT MILTON T., agt. G. U. Tea Co., bds. Dugan House. 

Knight Milton W., carpenter, bds. 56 Forsyth. 

Korbmann Rosa, widow Christian, h over 13 Lake. 

Labarron Sarah A., widow Edson, h 234 North ave. 

Lackawanna House, Ira J. VanDemark, prop., 176 River, South Side. 

LaGrange Abram, carpenter, bds. 52 West ave. 

LaGrange Charles, carriage-painter, h 52 West ave. 

Lainhart George, variety store, 212 Front, h 132 Main. 

Lake Martha D. Mrs., resident, h 58 Spencer ave. 

Lake Thomas B., meat-market and grocery, 119 North ave., h 65 Talcott. 

Lake William A., butcher, h over 119 Lake. 

Lamb Charles B., brakeman, h 174 North ave. 

LAMEREAUX NATHAN, saloon, 76 North ave., bds. 57 Church. 

LaMonte Fred S., (LaMonte & Rodman) produce, h 442 Front. 

LaMonte Samuel M., retired, h 105 Liberty. 

Lane Bert J., clerk, bds. 12 Adaline. 

Lane Leonard, clerk, bds. near Dean's tannery. 

Laning John, retired, h 143 Main. 

Larkin Thomas, laborer, h 62 Talcott. 

Lawheed Joseph W., boarding-house, 118 Temple. 

9 



130 .OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Lawrence Laura, widow William, bds. 69 Church. 

Lawrence Oscar S., emp. Erie Express Co., h 69 Church. 

Lawrence William A., jeweler, h McMaster. 

Lawrence William D., express messenger, h 58 Church. 

Layton Daniel, laborer, h 238 E. Temple. 

Layton James F., laborer, bds. 238 E. Temple. 

Layton John J., printer, bds. 239 E. Temple. 

Leach Benjapnin C, grocery and music, North ave., h do. 

Leach John J., locomotive engineer, h 158 McMaster. 

Leach Tillie C. music teacher, bds. North ave. 

Leahy James J., (P. Leahy & Son) bds. 310 Main. 

Leahy Patrick & Son, (James J.) groceries, provisions, and meats. Main cor. 

North ave. 
Leahy Patrick, (P. Leahy & ,Son) h 310 Main. 
Lee Albert S., barber, 109 North ave., h do. 
Lee William-, farm laborer, h 534 Main. 

Legg, Dolphus, emp. D., L. & W. R. R. freight depot, h 198 North ave. 
Legg Louis H., law clerk, bds. 69 Church. 
Lenon John, clerk, bds. European House. 
Leonard Allen, carpenter, h Water. 
Leonard Emily C, resident, h 313 Main. 
Leonard Frank, laborer, h W. Main, near Mill. 
LEONARD GEORGE S., loan, investment and insurance, 209 Front, h 

Main. 
Leonard John, saloon, 135 North ave., h do. 
Leonard Laura A., resident, h 313 East Main. 
Leonard Lewis S., clerk, h over 195 Main. 
LEONARD NATHANIEL, laborer, h Canal. 
LEONARD WILLIAM B., retired, h Front. 
Leonard Willis B., tobacco grower, h Pumpelly, South Side. 
Leroy Peter H., laborer, h Prospect, cor. Green. 
Letts Armena, widow John D., resident, h rear 18 Adaline. 
Levene Abram, tailor, h 42 Temple. 
Lewis Fred W., machinist, h 109 Fox. 
LEWIS GEORGE B., M. D., physician and surgeon, Lake, cor. Main,. 

rooms do. 
Lewis Mile, contractor, Owego Casket Company, h 95 West ave. 
Lewis Robert, laborer, h 93 Paige. 
Lillie George W., retired, h 103 River, South Side. 
Lillie Jared. saloon, 104 North ave., h do. 
Lincoln & Co., (C. K. Lincoln) coal and wood, 59 Central ave. 
Lincoln Charles K., (Lincoln & Co.) h 294 Main. 
Link Charles A., (Dwelle & Link) h 348 Front. 
Livermore Cyrus E., clerk, h 20 Ross. 

Livermore Otis W., general repair shop, rear 117 North ave., h 84 Chestnut. 
Livingston Amos, groceries and provisions, 56 North ave, h do. 
Loader Richard, painter, h 64 Forsyth. 
Locke Mary E., carpet weaver, li 91 Fox. 
LOCKE REUBEN B., carpenter, h 241 Erie. 
Long Jeremiah, resident, h 25 Temple. 
Loring Benjamin W., retired lieut. U. S. revenue marine service, h 351 

Front. 

SXARKEY & IVINXERS, WboleOale and Retail Druggists, Owego. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION, 131 

Loring Benjamin W., Jr., law student, bds. Front. 

Lounsbury William H., boot and shoemaker^ 63 North ave., h 37 Main. 

Lovejoy Charles L., photographer, Front cor. Court, h 313 Main. 

Lynch Daniel, bartender, bds. 7 Fulton. 

Lynch Martin S., atty. at law, Lake^ cor. Main h 495 Main. 

Lynch Michael, mason, h 7 Fulton. 

Lynch Michael, (Wall & Lynch) h Chestnut. 

Lynde Marion, widow James G., resident, bds. 51 Front. 

Lynn Luzern, laborer, h 65 Adaline. 

LYON & RIPLEY, (F. D. L. & H. C. R.) boots and shoes, 188 Front. 

Lyon & Robinson, (J. R. L. & G. R.) liquor dealers, 187 Main. 

LYON FRANCIS D., (Lyon & Ripley) h 7 Park. 

Lyon John R., (Lyon & Robinson) h 60 Paige. 

Mabee Foster N., agent Erie Express' Co., h 333 Main. 

MABEE JOHN A., (City Steam Laundry) h Temple cor. Central ave. 

Mabee William, emp. Owego Casket Company, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Macbeth Margaret, resident, h 22 William. * 

MAD AN ANDREW J., emp. James Hill estate, h in Talcott. 

Male William, carpenter^ h 22 WiUiam. 

Maloney Ann, resident, h 121 Erie. 

Maloney Bridget, resident, h 121 Erie. 

Maloney Catherine, widow Michael C, h 98 Temple. 

Maloney Catherine A.., clerk, bds. 98 Temple. 
Maloney Julia, resident, h 121 Erie. 

Maloney Minnie, dressmaker, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Maloney Owen T., bookbinder, h 98 Temple. 

MALONEY PATRICK, prop. Cobweb Bottling Works, Paige cor. Fox, also 
general grocery and liquors, 122 Paige, h do. 

Maloney William P., clerk, bds. 122 Paige. 

Manas Julia, dressmaker, bds. 7 East ave. 

Manas Patrick, R. R. signal tender, h 7 East ave. 

Manning Caroline M. Mrs., millinery, 206 Front, h do. 

Manning Ellen, dressmaker, bds. Division. 

Manning James, foreman Owego Times,h over 193 Main. 

Manning Josephine, tailoress, bds. Division. 

Manning Lewis, printer, bds. 133 North ave. 

Manning Margaret, widow John, h Division. 

MANNING MARION L., shoemaker, h 206 Front. 

Manning Mary, widow James, bds. 57 Church. 

Manning Michael J., laborer, bds. Division. 

Manning William H., carpenter, 113 Main, h do. 

Mareane James, engineer, bds. 156 Central ave. 

Maroney Daniel, laborer, h 245 E. Temple. 

Maroney John F., groceries, 56 North ave, h over do. 

Marquart Gideon, farmer, bds. 139 North ave. 

Marquart Levi, retired, h 17 West ave. 

Marquart Levier, bds. Commerce. 

Marquart Simeon, farmer, h 139 North ave. 

Marquett John M., shoemaker, h 473 Front. 

Marquett Larenzo, clerk, bds. 473 E. Front. 

Marquette Alanson A., resident, h 230 Prospect. 

Marquette Jerome N., clerk, 14 W. Main. 

STARKE'C & ■WINTBKS, DrnggUts, Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



132 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Marshall Mrs., resident, h 167 North ave. 

Martin Benjamin B., carriage-trimmer, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Marvin Harrison, orderly at State Capitol, h 94 Liberty. 

Mason Allen J., painter, bds. 113 Chestnut. 

Mason Harriet Mrs., widow Roswell A., laundress, h 113 Chestnut. 

Matson Cynthia E. Miss, resident, h 14 Front. 

Matson John L., furniture and undertaking, 183 Front, h 27 Park. 

Mawhiney Edward, bookkeeper, 164 North ave., bds. 5 Spruce. 

MAWHINEY WILLIAM J., (W. H. Bailey & Co.) h 5 Spruce. 

May William, laborer, h 209 Prospect. 

Maynard William, shoemaker, h 64 Spencer ave. 

MAYOR EDWARD A., D. D. S., dentist, over 173 Front, h Academy. 

Mayor William E., D. D. S., dentist, over 173 Front, bds. Academy. 

McArthur John, confectionery, 107 North ave., h do. 

McCofferty Anthony C, horse-dealer, bds. European House. 

McCoUy Thomas, resident, bds. United States Hotel. 

McCarthy Florence, laborer, h 604 Fifth ave. 

McCarthy John, laborer, h 119 Fox. 

McCarthy John P., clerk, bds. 604 Fifth ave. 

McCasUn John H., (Smith & McCasUn) blacksmith, h 190 River, So. Side. 

McCuUock , h 107, Chestnut. 

McCormick Daniel, brakeman, h 99 Fox. 

McDonald John, mason, bds. 18 West Main. 

McDowell Fayette, cabinet-maker, h Canal. 

McDowell Betty, widow Augustus, bds. Ah-wa-ga House." 

McGiflSn John L., emp. grist-mill, h 102 Chestnut. 

McGratch Patrick, laborer, h 115 Paige. 

McKee Robert, retired, h 387 Main. 

McKenzie Alexander C. Rev., pastor First Pres. church, h 321 Front. 

McLean Ezra, carpenter and builder, h 172 Talcott. 

McManus Rose, widow Patrick, laundress, h 91 Fox. 

McMaster Frank, liquor store, 70 North ave., h do. 

McNulty Barney, tanner, bds./ 133 North ave. 

McNulty James, baggageman, li 107 River, South Side. 

McNulty Thomas, emp. Dean's tannery, bds. near tannery, North ave. 

MEACHAM CHARLES D., carpenter, h 99 Talcott. 

Meacham Erastus, blacksmith, 221 North ave,, h do. 

MEAD & DARROW, (H. J. M. & F. A. D.) attorneys at law. Main cor. 

North ave. 
MEAD HOWARD J., (Mead & Darrow) h Main, cor. Spencer ave. 
Mericle Alfred, baggageman, h 200 North ave. 
Mericle Charles D., clerk, h 439 Main. 
Merritt Ephraim J., brakeman, h 167 North ave. 
Merrick John, salesman, h 57 Main. 
Metcalf Charles, miller, h 114 Central ave. 
Metcalf Hannah M., widow Dr. A. E., h 207 East Main. 
Middaugh Augustus B., carpenter, h 32 Adaline. 
Middaugh Elijah, retired, h off Water. 
Middaugh James E., laborer, h Canal Front. 
Miller Edith L., tailoress, bds. 88 AdaUne. 
Miller Lorenzo, clerk, h Central ave. 
Miller Mrs., widow Abram, h 405 Front. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. I33 

MILLREA BROTHERS, (W. A., J. F. & T.) meat-market and grocery, 

178 Front. 
MILLREA J. FRED, (Millrea Bros.) h 377 Main. 
MILLREA THOMAS, (Millrea Bros.) bds. Dugan House. 
MILLREA WILLIAM A., (Millrea Bros.) h 55 Paige. 
Mills Robert, cooper, h 102 McMaster. 
Minehan John, tanner, h 64 Temple. 
Minehan William, miller, bds. 14 W. Main. 
Miner William D., book-keeper 174 Front, bds. Dugan House. 
Mitchell Bartlett, tanner, h 107 River, South Side. 
Mitchell Eliza A. B., widow Henry A., bds. 153 Temple. 
Mitchell William J., emp. King & Co., bds. 107 River, South Side. 
Moak Robert T., retired carpenter,' h 130 North ave. 
Moffitt James R., laborer, h 117 Green. 
Moffitt Robert J., laborer, h 1 17 Green. 
Moloney Agnes K., clerk, bds. 98 Temple. 
Moneypenny Elizabeth, widow Robert L., resident, h 388 M^in. 
Monyhan George, hostler, bds. United States Hotel. 
Moody Winfield S., harness-maker, h 59 Main. 
Moon Reuben, cooper, h John R. 
Moore & Ross, (T. F. M. & J. S. R.) carriage and wagon manufs., 146 

North ave. 
Moore Charles, wagon-maker, h 134 North ave. 
Moore Helen E. B., widow Dr. Robert, resident, h 227 Front. 
Moore Theodore F., (Moore & Ross) h 82 Chestnut. 
Moran James, well driver, bds. 89 William. 
Morann Thomas, blacksmith, h 105 Fox. 
MOREHOUSE ALLIE, art teacher, h Spencer ave. 
Morehouse Charles H., printer, h Spencer ave. 
Morehouse John, carpenter, h off Water. 
Morgan Delos, carpenter, h 18 Paige. 
Morgan William B., horse- trainer, h 607 Main. 
Morris Anna, widow John, bds. 104 Paige. 
Morris Frank, clerk, bds. no Spencer ave. 
Morris Patrick, laborer, h no Spencer ave. 
Morris Thomas, resident, bds. no Spencer ave. 
Morse Charles, printer, h 31 Temple. 

Morse Henry H., butcher and farmer, h Pumpelly, South Side, h do. 
Morse Mrs., resident, h 100 East ave. 
Morse Newell,, coal, wood and shingles, 133 Temple, h do. 
Morton Durwent, laborer, h 169 North ave. 
Morton Edward, laborer, h 215 North ave. 
Morton Ida E., widow G. A., h 84 North ave. 
Morton John, constable and tanner, h South Side. 
Moulton Miehael A., sewing machine repairer 10 Lake, bds. do. 
Mulks Frank H., emp. foundry, h 130 Chestnut. 
Munger Cynthia L., widow Alanson, h 285 Main. 
Munn Sarah E. Mrs., resident, bds. 7 George. 
Murray Ida Mrs., laundress, h 26 Talcott. 
Muzzy Cornelius, clerk, bds. 279 Main. 
Myers Andrew, butcher, h 6 West ave. 
Myers Jessie, teacher, bds. 6 West ave. 
Myers Philip, emp. casket works, bds. 6 West ave. 



134 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Ideally Sarah F., teacher, bds. 560 Fifth ave. 

Neaves Edmund J., clerk, bds. Front. 

Nelson Bert E., drug clerk, bds. North ave. extension. 

Nelson James, retired, bds. 48 West Main. 

Nelson James, Jr., notions, 48 West Main, h do. 

Nelson Willa M., dressmaker, bds 21 George. 

Nelson WilUam, engineer, h 21 George. 

Newell Frank, carpenter, h 117 Central ave. 

Newell Friend G., cabinet-maker, rear 17 Lake, h 57 Liberty. 

.Newell Gilbert, resident, h 34 Fox. 

Newell Gilbert C., emp. foundry, bds. 77 West ave. 

Newell Oryin L., emp. foundry, h 77 West ave. 

■*NEWGEON MARY Fj, physician, 295 Main, h do. 

Newiand James D., laborer, h 248 North ave. 

Newman Adolphus, (Newman Bros.) h 47 Temple. 

Newman Brothers, ( A. &,G.) dry goods and millinery, 31 and 33 Lake. 

Newman George, (Newman Bros.) h 47 Temple. 

NEWMAN SIMON, optician, h 54 Temple. 

Newton Charles D., printer, h 43 Talcott. 

Newton Frank, laborer, h 152 River, South Side. 

Newton George, emp. Chamberlain's boot and shoe factory, h 125 Main. 

Nichols George A., (Nichols & Huber) h 161 Main. 

Nichols Susan B., widow Thomas M., h 55 Front. 

Nichols Susan B. Miss, resident, bds. 55 Front. 

Nichols Washington, resident, h 55 Front. 
/NIXON CHARLES D., loan and investment, real estate and lawyer; also 
prop. Jenksville steam mills. Front cor. Court, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 

Nixon Walter, harness-maker, h over 168 Front. 

N. Y., L. E. & W. R. R. Depot, Cameron B. Dean, agent, North ave., cor. 
Depot. 

Noble Asa S., carpenter, h 12 Adaline. 

Noonan David E., carpenter, h 96 Franklin. 

Noonnan Daniel, mason, h Paige. 

Norris Charles P., carriage-smith, h 266 Prospect. 

Norris George E., lamp-lighter, h 521 Front. 

Norris Hampton M., barber, bds. 266 Prospect. 

Norris Theodore, teamster, bds., Decker Block, Main. 

Northrop Tilly, book-canvasser, bds. 113 Chestnut. 

Northrop William T., painter, h 113 Chestnut. 

Norton Harriet A., widow Colden O., h 164 Temple. 

Norwood Erastus, retired, bds. 7 Hill. 

Nugent Mary, pastry-cook Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 

Nutt Hamer, emp. King & Co., bds. ir8 Temple. 

N. Y. & PA. TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH CO., Frank S. Blood- 
good, manager, 178 Main. 

NYE ARTHUR E., (Nye Brothers) h Fox. 

NYE BROTHERS, (M. G. & A. E.) bakers and confectioners, 44 Lake. 

NYE MELVIN G., (Nye Brothers) bds. Fox. 

Oakley Timothy B., counselor at law, 214 Front, h River Road. 

ODD FELLOWS' HALL, W. Stewart, janitor, over 80 North ave. 

Odell Hiram, A., engineer, h 36 George. 

Ogden Aaron, tobacconist, 7 I^ake, h Front. 

Ogden Frederic L., traveling salesman, bds. Front. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 135 



Ogden Harriet A., widow Walter, h 229 Main. 

Ogden Priscella C, widow Isaac, h 194 River, South Side. 

Ogden S. Jane, widow Jehiel, resident, h 125 Main. 

OHART S. JAY, att'y and counselor at law. Academy Bld'g, Court, h at 
Tioga Center. 

Ohern Bartholomew, track foreman S. C. R. R., h near tannery, North ave. 

Ohmar Patrick, gardener, bds. Front. 

Olmstead Franklin H., machinist, bds. 227 Erie. 

Olmstead Freeborn W., machinist, h 227 Erie. 

O'Neil Maggie, clerk, 61 East ave. 

O'Neil Michael, laborer, h 61 East ave. 

Orcutt J. Allan, carpenter, h 126 Chestnut. 

Orcutt Isaac D., bridge carpenter, h 45 Fox. 

O'ROURKE MICHAEL F., keeper Auburn prison, h Lake. 

Ostrander Edward, emp. King & Co., bds. 14 West ave. 

*OWEGO CRUCIFORM CASKET CO., (John Jones, pres't; J. J. Van- 
Kleeck, sec'y J and C. R. Heaton, treas.) burial caskets #nd under- 
takers' supplies, lumber, sash, doors, and blinds, 42, 44 and 46 Delphine. 

*OWEGO DAILY AND WEEKLY RECORD, (Scott & Watros) 172 
Front. 

Owego Gas Light Co., A. P. Storrs, Jr., pres't, office Front cor. Lake. 

*OWEGO GAZETTE, (weekly) Leroy W. Kingman, editor and publisher, 
28 Lake. 

*OWEGO IRON WORKS, Cauldwell & Gray, props., McMas.tercor. Dalton. 

O \5rE6O IRON \5rORKS 

CAULDWELL & GRAY, Proprietors. 



FOITXTSZl'Z' ^ITS l^IiLCXIZITE SBOFS. 



WE MANUFACTURE NEARLY ALL KINDS OF CASTINGS. 

©ngines and ©oileps ]^epaiped 

ALSO MACHINE WORK DONE ON SHORT NOTICE. 

We MsLUufa^oture Patent Cast Iron Sta,iida,rds and Lasts for Shoemakers' use. 

OWEGO NATIONAL BANK, (Charles E. Parker, pres't ; R. B. Dean, 
vice-pres't ; C. A. Thompson, cashier ; J. A. Bassett, teller) 6 Lake. 

OWEGO POSTOFFICE, F."0. Cable, postmaster. Lake. 

*0WEGO'tIMES, (Weekly) W. Smyth & Son, props., 193 Main. 

OWEGO TIMES BINDERY AND BLANK-BOOK MANUF., W. Smyth 
& Son, props., 193 Main. . 

OWEGO WATER WORKS, George Y. Robertson, sup't, 69 North ave. 

Owen Elias H. Mrs., h 314 Front. 

Padgett Gurdon E., emp. Canawanna mills, bds. Canal. 

Padgett William S., laborer, h off Water. 

Paine Thomas, saloon and restaurant, 229 North ave., h do. 



136 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Park George W., carpenter^ h 74 Fox. 

Park Hotel, (Nichols & Huber, props.) 161 Main. 

PARKER CHARLES E., county judge, surrogate, and att'y at law, pres't 

Owego National Bank, Court House, h 108 Main. 
PARKER STELLA, widow John M., h 113 Front. 
Parmelee Alburn S., manager Western Union and Erie telegraph offices, Erie 

Depot, h 77 Liberty. 
PARMELEE ALBURN W., (Beach & Parmelee) h Main. 
Parmeter Edward, lumber, h 3 Spruce. 
Parris Stephen, billiards, h 206 Front. 
Partridge Frank J., soapmaker, h George. 
Partridge John F., resident, h 48 George. 
Partridge John F., Jr., soapmaker, bds. 48 George. 
Partridge Walter B., clerk, bds. 48 George. 

Partridge William J., baggageman S.C. R. R. depot, h 91 Talcott. 
Patghard Gordon, laborer, h Canal. 
Patrick George W., resident, bds. Park Hotel. 
Payne Frank A., hack driver, bds. Central ave. 
PAYNE FRANK F., printer, bds. Main. 
Payne John, gardener, h 256 Prospect. 
Payne William A.., porter Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Peabody Oliver A., harness-maker, h 19 John. 
PEARSALL ANDREW T., physician and surgeon, Taylor Block, h Main 

■ cor. Spencer ave. 
Pearsall Dwight, engineer, h 192, North ave. 
Pearsall Gilbert, medical student, bds. Main cor. Spencer ave. 
PEARSALL RANSOM S., justice of the peace, over 168 Front, h in 

Apalachin. 
PeasQ George, shoemaker, 160 North ave./h do. 
Pease Johanna, widow David, bds. 56 George. 

Peck Ezra J., prmcipal of academy and supt. of schools, h 104 Main. 
Peck Nancy M., widow Rev. Philetus B., h 347 Main. 
Peck Sarah N., resident, bds. 347 Main. 
Peck William A., resident, h 105 Talcott. 
Pelham John W., cooper, h 39 Temple. 
Pelham William, cooper, bds. 133 North ave. 
PELLUM MARGARET MRS., shampooer of ladies' hair, also hair worker, 

h 459 Main. 
Penney Ella G., book keeper, bds. 59 Spencer ave. 
Penney Joseph H., cutter, h 59 Spencer ave. 
PENNY CORNELIUS S., bridge carpenter, h 16 Adaline. 
Penny Frederick C, clerk, h 31 Church. 
Perkins Frederick, carpenter, h 21 Fulton. 
Perrine Joanna, widow John K., h Buckbee Block. 
Perry Harley, emp. foundry, bds. 1 1 8 Temple. 
Perry John M., blacksmith, h 30 Temple. 
Perry Lottie A., teacher. South Side, bds. do. 
Perry William H., carpenter, h South Side. 
Pert Thomas, express messenger, h 31 Front. 
Pert William, tel. op., bds. 31 Front. 
Peters William, resident, h 162 McMaster. 

PETERSON PETER C, (Buckbee, Peterson, Wood & Co.) h i6 Ross. 
Phelps E. B., retired physician and surgeon. Front cor. Paige. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 137 

Phillips Augustus H., retired, bds. 113 Franklin. 
Phillips Betie, clerk, bds. 68 Adaline. 
Phillips Came, clerk, bds. 228 Front. 
Phillips James H., bridge carpenter, h 68 Adaline. 
Phillips William H., gardener, bds. 68 Adaline. 
Pike Augusta, widow Horace, h 8 W. Main. 

Pinney Hammon D., books, stationery and wall-paper, 45 Lake, h 437 Front. 
Pippett Mary, widow James, laundress, h loi Fox. 
PITCHER DANIEL M., wool, hides and pelts, 175 Front, h 325 Main. 
Pitcher Lena, resident, h over Lake cor. Main. 
Plakenpol John, farmer, h n Dean's Tannery. 
PLATT FREDERICK E., cashier Tioga Nat. Bank, h 256 Main. 
Piatt George, resident, h 33 Church. 
Piatt George Mrs., cancer specialist, h 33 Church. 
Piatt Henry B., (Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co.) rooms 33 Park. 
Piatt Harry P., supt. for Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., bds. Court. 
Poltzen Peter, piano-maker, h 11 Dean's Tannery. 
Porter Frances S., widow Rev. George P., bds. 322 Main. 
Postal Telegraph and Cable Co., (C. W. Daggett, mgr.) 40 Lake. 
Potter Asa N., retired, h 87 Main. 
Potter Isaac L., carpenter, h loo Chestnut. 
Powell William, gardener, h Front. 
Powell Williajn H., jeweler, bds. Front. 
Prendergast John, pattern-maker, h 78 Paige. 
Prendergast John, Jr., resident, bds. 78 Paige. 
Pride Eliza, widow William, h Water. 
Prime Aaron P., gardener, h Constine's lane. 
Pritchard Albert J., clerk, h Spencer Block, Lake. 
Probert Daniel, laborer, bds. Canal. 
Probert Emma, dressmaker, bds. Canal. 
Pultz Frank, photographer, bds. 38 Lake. 
Pultz Griffin, locomotive engineer, h 5 1 Fox. 
Pultz Griffin, Jr., music teacher, bds. 5 1 Fox. 
Purapelly Caroline A., resident, bds. 113 Front. 

Pumpelly -Gurdon H., wholesale leaf tobacco dealer, and farmer 250, h Pura- 
pelly, South Side. 
Pumpelly James F., real estate dealer and farmer, h Pumpelly, South Side. 
Purdy Emma D., music teacher, bds. 147 Main. 
Purple George B., expressman, h 102 Liberty. 
Purple Jasper L., contractor, h 99 Franklin. 
Putnam Archibald, painter, h 425 Main. 
Putnam Frederick, (Leverson & Putnam) h Malin. 
Putnam Frederick J., painter, h 427 Main. 
Putnam Jennie C, milliner, bds! 425 Main. 

Putnam Louis H., house-painter and music teacher, bds. 425 Mam. 
Putney Cyrus, shoemaker, h 97 Paige. 
Quetschenbach Anna, widow Walter, h 269 Erie. 
Quetschenbach Grace, dressmaker, 269 Erie, bds. do. 
Quetschenbach Joseph, cigarmaker, bds. 269 Erie. 
Quinn Ann, resident, h 88 South Depot. 
Quinn Frank, laborer, bds. 18 West Main. 
Quinn Julia, dressmaker, bds. 18 West Main. 
Quinn Richard, brakeman, h 5 Fox. 



138, OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Rader Lawrence W., plumber, h South Side. 

Rady Kate E., widow Hugh, dressmaker, h 124 Paige. 

Randall Frank, carpenter, h 607 Main. 

Randall Samuel, carpenter, h 607 Main. 

Ransom John, laborer, h 1 1 1 Paige. 

Ransom Margaret, widow Robert, h 115 Fox. 

Rapp Charles F., salesman, bds. Dugan House. 

RAYMOND & EMERY (F. L. R. and D. H. E.) carriage and wagon 

manufrs., Central ave. cor. Temple. 
Raymond Chauncey L., mgr. of store for Mary F. Raymond, h 199 Main. 
RAYMOND FRANK L., (Raymond & Emery) h 29 Fox. 
Raymond George C, carriage-maker, h 72 McMaster. 
Raymond Mary F., groceries and meats, 199 Main, h do. 
Raymond Mrs., resident, h 64 Spencer ave. 
Raymond William B., clerk, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
Raymond WilUam B., farmer 75, h 228 Main. 
Raymond William W., clerk, bds. over 199 Main. 
Ready James, laborer, h 149 Erie. 

Redding Hugh, dyeing and cleaning, 65 Central ave., h McMaster. 
REED SARAH, widow Timothy C, resident, h 26 Ross. 
Regaii Edward, bartender, bds. 16 Lake. 
Regan Jane, widow Thomas, resident, h 109 Paige. 
Regan Jerry, cigarmakerj h 99 Erie. 
Regan John, saloon and restaurant 16 Lake, h do. 
Relyea Andrew, carpenter, h 26 Fulton. 
REN WICK WILLIAM C, (Battelle & Renwick of New York city) h 79 

Front. 
Reynolds Peter^ carpenter, h 270 North ave. 
Reynolds Smith, peddler, bds. 133 North ave. 
Rhinevault Myron, blacksmith rear 81 North ave., h 53 Talcott. 
Rice Catherine, resident, h 65 Adaline. 
Rich George E., (Dorwin, Stone & Rich) h 40 Front. 
Richards & Doyle (W. N. R. & P. J. D.) wholesale and retail liquors, 168 

Front. 
Richards William N., (Richards & Doyle) bds. Ah-wa-ga House. • 
Richardson Wesley L., carpenter, 557 Front. 
Rightraire Charles H., carpenter, h 17 George. 
Rigney Thomas, harness-maker, bds. 64 South depot. 
Riley & Gillett, (M. R. & L. W. G.) blacksmiths, 140 Front. 
Riley George, blacksmith, h 140 Central ave. 
Riley James, laborer, h Constine's lane. 
Riley James, blacksmith 81 North, h 34 Main. 
Riley Martin, (Riley & Gillett) h 27 Fox. 
Ringrose Ellen, widow Patrick, h 117 Franklin. 
Ringrose John, clerk, bds. 117 Franklin. 
Ringrose Thomas J., printer, bds. 117 Franklin. 
Ringrose William E., (Shaw & Ringrose) bds. 117 Franklin. 
RIPLEY HENRY C, (Lyon & Ripley) h 359 Main. 
Ripley Sarah P., resident, h 53 Paige. 
Roach David, blacksmith, h 113 Spencer ave. 
Roach Ellen, widow David, h 100 Spencer ave. 
Roache David, laborer, h 231 Temple. 
Roak Alvin P., salesman. 198 Front, bds. Main. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 1 39 

Roberts J., traveling salesman, bds. 67 Central ave. 

Roberts Lincoln, emp. drill shop, bds. 67 Central ave. 

Robertson Frank W., bds. 123 North ave. 

ROBERT'SON GEORGE Y., supt. water works, h 489 Main. 

Robertson Jason J., street commissioner, h 79 Talcott. 

Robertson A. Jerry, chief of police, h 123 North ave. 

Robertson Peter, gardener, h 489 Main. 

Robertson Peter J., emp. Erie freight-house, h 26 John. 

Robertson Ralph H., clerk, h 9 Spruce. 

Robertson Will P., emp. foundry, bds. 79 Talcott. 

Robinson Alexander, laborer, h 98 Fox. 

Robinson Alvin T., carpenter, h Adaline. 

Robinson Bert E., emp. casket company, bds. AdaUne. 

Robinson Charles, harness-maker, bds. 177 Main. 

Robinson Edwin, moulder, bds. 115 Temple. 

Robinson Elvira, widow J. Owen, bds. Adaline. 

Robinson George, laborer, h 121 Green. 

Robinson George, carpenter, h 115 Temple. 

Robinson George, (Lyon & Robinson) h over 187 Main. 

Robinson Jacob H., blacksmith and farmer 61, h 552 Main. 

Robinson James V., bar-tender, h North ave. cor. Fox. 

Robinson Martin V., clerk, bds. Adaline. 

Robinson Matthew, saloon, 20 Lake, bds. Dugan House. 

Robinson William, constable, h 109 North ave. 

Rockwell Marvin, emp. foundry, h 116 Chestnut. 

RODMAN CHARLES, county sheriff and produce. Front, and Main cor. 

Court, h do. 
Rodman Edward D., deputy sheriff and produce dealer, Main cor. Court, 

hdo. 
Rogers Arthur L., saloon, 152 Front, h do. 
Rogers Elias H., emp. drill works, h Fox cor. Central ave. 
Rogers James T., assistant postmaster, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
Roland John, laborer, bds. near tannery, North ave. 
Roll Joseph, cigar-maker, bds. 269 Erie. 
ROMINE CHARLES F., house, sign, fresco and decorative painter and 

paper-hanger, 1,21 Erie, h do. 
Romine Clarence W., painter and paper-hanger, T19 Chestnut, h do. 
ROMINE DEMOSTHENES, piano-varnisher, h 279 Prospect. 
ROMINE EDWIN B., house-painting and decorating. Opera House Block, 

h 95 Fox. 
Romine Joseph, painter, bds. 119 Chestnut. . _ 

ROMINE PERCIVAL H., scenic, fresco, ornamental and house-pamtmg, 

paper-hanging, etc., 81 Fox, h do. 
Romine Samuel L., painter, h 104 Fox. 
Rose Jane,, widow Albin, h 164 Temple. 
Ross AUie M., dressmaker, 42 William, bds. do. 
Ross Delia, widow Horatio, h 42 William. 
Ross Ed. L., machinest, bds. 93 West ave. 
Ross John S., (Moore & Ross) bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
Ross Oliver L., salesman, h 492 Main. 
Ross William E., laborer, h 15 Fox. 

Rounsville Caroline E., widow Charles J., resident, bds. 15 tront. 
Rowe Henry W., clerk, h oveir 19 Main. 



I40 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Rowe Joseph, blacksmith, h loo Liberty. 

Rowe Louise, clerk, bds. Front. 

Rowe M. & G., (Mary & Gussie) dressmakers, 192 Front, h do. 

Rubert Charles B., jeweler, bds. Dugan House. 

Rumph David, lather, h 217 North ave. 

Russell Howard A., emp. Erie R. R., h 54 Fox. 

Russell Van Ness, retired, h g i Talcott. 

Ryan Annis, widow Thomas, h Canal. 

Ryan Charlotte, widow Joseph, resident, h near Dean's tannery. 

Ryan Michael, laborer, hi? Park. 

Ryan Patrick, laborer, h 19 West ave. 

Ryan Thomas E., moulder, h 65 George. 

Ryan William, machinist, bds. Canal. 

Sackett Hattie, teacher, bds. 100 Front. 

Sackett MaryT., widow Charles, resident, h 100 Front. 

Sackett Richard G., express messenger, bds. 45 Front. 

Saltsman George, clerk, bds. 488 Main. 

Sample Arche, laborer, h 493 Front. 

SamuelsYetta, widow Jacob, h 60 Spencer ave. 

Sanford Dayton M., clerk, h to8 Liberty. 

San ford William Rev., African M. E. Zion church, bds. 106 Paige. 

Saxton Edward, carpenter, h 96 Liberty. 

SCHNEPPER JACOB, supt. Canawanna mill, h Water. 

SCHOONMAKER CHRISTOPHER K, (Buckbee, Peterson, Wood & Co.) 

bds. 313 Main. 
Schoonmaker John, cooper, h Railroad. 
Schoonmaker John, cooper, h 1 1 2 Liberty. 
Schopp Francis A., mason, bds. Pumpelly, South Side. 
Schopp John P., gardener, bds. Pumpelly, South Side. 
Schopp Peter, mason and farmer, h Pumpelly, South Side. 
Schopp Stephen M., farmer, bds. Pumpelly, South Side. 
Schopp William T., farmer, bds. Pumpelly, South Side. 
SCOTT & WATROS, (C. S. Scott and O. J. Watros) publishers Owego 

Record, 172 Front. 
Scott Charles, farmer with his brother Edmund 250, h 6 Adaline. 
SCOTT CLAYTON S., (Scott & Watros) h William. 
Scott George, cartman, h 206 North ave. 
Scott Lee, laborer, h 531 Front. 
Scott Lizzie, teacher, bds. 6 Adeline. 
Scott Harriet, resident, h Fox cor. Central ave. 
Scrafford Robert, janitor, h 226 North ave. 
Searles John T., (J. T. Searls & Son) h over 136 North ave. 
Searles J. T. & Son, (Louie F.) groceries and provisions, 136 North ave. 
Searles Lot, carpenter, h 97 Central ave. 
Searles Louie F., (J. T. Searles & Son) h 119 West ave. 
SEARS JOHN G., district attorney. Lake cor. Main, h 56 Front. 
Seely Lewis, boarding, 133 North ave. 

SETTEL LYMAN L., atty. at law, Postoffice Bldg.,bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
Severn Franklin L., bridge builder, h 318 Front. 

Severson & Putnam, (G. R. S. and F. P.) saloon and pool-room, 78 North ave. 
Severson & Williamson, (G. S. & C. W.) saloon 53 North ave. 
Severson Edward, steward Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Severson George, (Severson & Williamson) h Main cor. Forsyth. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. i^i 



Severson George R., (Severson & Putnam) h 417 Main. 

Severson Mary, dressmaker, bds. 417 Main. 

SEYMOUR LOUISA L., widow Dr. Elias W., 113 North ave. h do 

Shanahan Patrick H., clerk, h 87 Liberty. 

Shaughnessy Luke, marble-worker, h 100 McMaster. 

Shaw & Dean, (C. E. S. and C. R. D.) merchant millers, no Central ave 

Shaw & Rmgrose (E. ;. S. and W. E. R.) wholesale and retail grocers, Lake 

cor. Main. 
Shaw Charles E., (Shaw & Dean) h 276 Main. 
Shaw Elmer J., (Shaw & Ringrose) h Church. 
Shaw William, farmer, h South Side. 
SHAW WILLIAM H., saloon, 156 Front, h do. 
Shay Bridget, widow Henry, h 89 Paige. 
Shay James, laborer, bds. 113 Erie. 
Shay John, clerk, bds. 44 Fox. 
Shay John, laborer, h 113 Erie. 
Shay Maggie, tailoress, bds. 44 Fox. 
Shay Mary A., dressmaker, bds. 113 Erie. 
Shay Nellie, tailoress, bds. 44 Fox. 
Shay Owen, railroad car inspector, h 44 Fox. 
Shays George, meat market, 82 North ave., also fish market 84* do., h 60 

West ave. 
Shays Jonas, groceries and provisions, 72 North ave, h 63 McMaster. 
Shays Lucinda, widow Hiram, h 60 West ave. 
Shays Rilla, bookkeeper, bds. 60 West ave. 
Shea John, laborer, h 505 Front. 

Shea William, emp. Cobweb Bottling Works, bds. Chestnut. 
Shehan Timothy, mason, h 105 Paige. 
Sheldon & Yates, (W. H. S. and A. Y.) groceries and provisions, 131 North 

ave. 
Sheldon Erastus, sawfiler, h over 131 North ave. 
Sheldon William H., (Sheldon & Yates) h 117 CentraLave. 
Shepard W. Henry, carpenter, h Main. 
Sheridan Robert E., moulder, h 395 "Main. 
Sherlock Robert J., tailor, h 524 Main. 
Sherman Frederick S., farmer, h South Side. 
Sherman Harriet, widow Reuben, h South Side. 
Shields James, section foreman Erie R. R., h 566 Fifth ave. 
Shipman Ernest R., clerk, bds. Adaline. 

Shipman Prosper, emp. Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h Adaline. 
Shipman Rufus, emp. Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h 131 Talcott. 
Shuler Andrew, clerk, bds. 147 Talcott. 
Shupp Lawrence, shoemaker, 18 Lake, h do. 
SIBLEY OLIVER P., (Stiles & Sibley) also produce dealer, and larmer 100, 

h g6 Chestnut. 
SIGNOR ALBERT, pianos, organs and spring-beds, 207 Front, h Fifth ave. 
Signer Loreta, saleswoman, bds. Fifth ave. 
Simmons George, stationary engineer, bds. off North ave. n S. C. R. R. 

round-house. 
Simmons John, emp. Casket Factory, bds. off North ave. n S. C. R. R. 

round-house. 
Sinon Patrick, laborer, bds. 103 Erie. 
Sinon Robert, laborer, h 103 Erie. 



142 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Sinon Susan, widow John, h 67 Erie. 

Sisson Cornelia, widow, h over 102 North ave. 

Sisson Sarah, teacher, h over 102 North ave. 

Sisson William D., carpenter, h 18 Fulton. 

Skeels Frederick, resident, h over 64 North ave. 

Skeels Irving D., postal clerk, h over 17 Lake. 

Skellenger Emma E., dressmaker, 5 1 Forsyth, h do. 

Skellenger James C, moulder, bds. 73 George. 

Skellenger Martin E., conductor, h 73 George. 

Skellinger William H , brakeman, h 5 1 Forsyth. 

Skillman David, mason, h 219 North ave. 

Skinner Emily, widow Charles P., resident, h 80 Main. 

SLATER FRANK B., variety store and job printing, 75 Paige cor. Tem- 
ple, h do. 

Slater Phoebe A., widow David, bds. 75 Paige. 

Slocum Ethan A., emp. drill works, h W. Main near Mill. 

Smead David J., harness-maker 150 Front, h 49 Temple. 

Smith Catherine, widow Silas J., laundress, h Gere. 

SMITH CHARLES F., groceries, bds. Central House. 

Smith Charles W. H., book-keeper Lake, h 99 Green. 

Smith Chauncey G., tailbr, h 443 Main. 

Smith Edward, moulder, bds 79 George. 

Smith Enos', resident, bds. 229 Main. 

SMITH FRED W., milk products and farm produce, 38 Lake, h Fifth ave. 

Smith George W., laborer, h 79 George. 

Smith George W., laborer, h-2oS North ave. 

Smith Hannah, widow Philip, resident, h 32 Temple. 

SMITH HATTIE A., art teacher, bds. 443 Main. 

Smith Herbert, clerk, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Smith James L., hats, caps, robes, &c., 8 Lake, also book-keeper 190 Front, 
h 15 John. 

Smith John, laborer, h 94 Fox. 

Smith John, laborer, h 220 North ave. 

Smith Jonathan M , clerk, h Main. 

Smith Joseph W., (Smith & McCaslin) h River, South Side. 

Smith Julius, baggageman, h 21 Fox. 

SMITH LEWIS, blacksmith 168 North ave., h 96 Temple. 

Smith Patty A., widow Milo, h 18 William. 

Smith Philip, emp. foundry, bds. 32 Temple. 

Smith Samuel H., freight agent Erie R. R., h 30 Paige. 

Smith Samuel L., hatter, h 23 John. 

Smith William, blacksmith, bds. 96 Temple. 

Smith William E., ice peddler, bds. 117 North ave. 

Smith William H., engineer, h 59 West ave. 

Smith William L., blacksmith, bds. 96 Temple. 

Smullen Edward, laborer, h 26 W. Main. 

SMYTH WILLIAM & SON, (William A.) props. Owego Times, and bind- 
ery and blank-book mnfy., 193 Main. 

SMYTH WILLIAM, (WilUam Smyth & Son) h no Temple cor. Church. 

SMYTH WILLIAM A,, (William Smyth & Son) h 70 Church. 

Snyder George, life insurance, h over 63 North ave. 

Solomon Eleanor P., widow William C, h 32 William. 

Solomon Cecil, emp. casket company, bds. 32 William. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 



143 



Somers Daniel T., carpenter, h 130 Talcott. 

Soper Frances, wid. Frederick, h 123 Green. 

Southerland Washington R., resident, h 134 Talcott. 

SOUTHERN CENTRAL RAILROAD DEPOT, Delphine. 

Spaulding Enoch R., barber, 47 Lake, h 63 Spencer ave. 

Spaulding Francis, barber, bds. 63 Spencer ave. 

Spaulding Harriet-S., widow John, h 65 East ave. 

Spaulding Harry B., apprentice, bds. 65 East ave. 

SPEERS WILLIAM S., hay and general produce, 207 North ave., h 52 

Church. 
Spelecy Thomas, R. R. track foreman, h 96 South Depot. 
Spelecy William, laborer, bds. 96 South Depot. 
SPENCER WILLIAM H., pianos, organs and sewing machines, h 220 

East Temple. 
SPORER, CARLSON & BERRY, (F. S., O. M. C. & J. B.) piano manufs. 

and dealers in musical merchandise, 58 North ave. 
SPORER FRANCIS M., (Sporer, Carlson & Berry) h 97 Main.* 
Sprague Rowland, 'bus-driver, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
Spring Liba G., resident, h 65 East ave. 
Sprong Eugene, resident, h 254 North ave. 
Sprong Hannah J., widow John V., h 12 Talcott. 
STANBROUGH JOHN B., hardware and stoves, 180 Front, h do. 
Stanbrough Lyman T., lawyer, bds. Front. 
*STARKEY & WINTERS, (J. C. S. & E. W.) drugs and medicines, cor. 

Front and Lake. 



STARKEY & WINTERS, 




The Prescription Department is in charge of a graduate of the College of Pharmacy, of the 
City of New York, and who was formerly with Caswell. Hazard & Co., of that city. 

Since taking the Ely Drug Store, they have estahHshed a reputation for sMMfulness and 
accuracy in selecting, manufacturing and dispensing Drugs and Medicines, which has gainedl 
for them the entire confidence of the public. 



COR. FRONT AND LAKE STS., 

Persons out of town can order by mail or telephone. 



OWEGO, N. y. 



STARKEY EMMA A., (Starkey & Winters) widow Dr. John E., bds. 3 

Park. 
Starr A. Loreha, book-keeper, 15 Lake, bds. 290 Main. 
STARR CHARLES P., jeweler, 15 Lake, h 290 Main. 
STEARNS PHINEAS S., physician, bds. Park Hotel. 
Stebbins Ann E., widow Charles, h 560 Fifth ave. 

STEBBINS BARNEY M., insurance and real estate, 34 Lake, h 33. Paige. 
Stebbins Charles L., traveling salesman, bds. 560 Fifth ave. 
Stebbins Fanny, teacher, bds. 560 Fifth ave. 
Stebbins George M., book-keeper, 34 Lake, bds. South Side. 
Stebbins John E., resident, bds. South Side. 
Stebbins William M., resident, h South Side. 
Steele Don, book-keeper Owego Nat. Bk., h over Cole's, clothing store, Lake. 



144 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Steele G, Odell, groceries and provisions, 177 Front, h 30 Ross. 

Steele John F., harness-maker, h 164 Temple. 

Steen Bert, coachman, bds. Canal. 

Steen Stogdill S., farmer, h near Dean's tannery. 

STEEVENS NORTON A., foreman Champion Wagon Works, h 90 Chest- 
nut. 

STEPHENS W. HENRY, mechanic, h 577 Front. 

Stevens Alexander, laborer, h 63 North ave. 

Stevens Charles J., erap. grain drill works, h near tannery. North ave. 

Stevens Frank Mrs., resident, h 105 North ave. 

Stevens John, piano-maker, h Canal. 

Stevens Romeo, shoemaker, h 32 John. 

Stever Alvin C, resident, h over 167 Main. 

Stever Amanda E. Mrs., dressmaker, over 78 North ave., h do. 

STEVER PETER, butcher, 74 North ave., h over do. 

Stewart James W., minstrel performer, Constine's Lane. 

Stewart Wilmot L., soap-maker, h 28 Temple. 

STILES Sz: SIBLEY, (F. H. S. & O. P. S.) agricultural implements, North 
ave. 

Stiles Charles L., physician and surgeon, 228 Front, h do. 

Stiles George, clerk, bds. 67 Central ave. 

Stiles Mary, resident, bds. 206 Front. 

Stillman Phineas, harness-maker, bds. Decker Block, Main. 

Stockwell R., harness maker, bds. Decker Block, Main. 

Stone Eli W., teller Tioga Nat. Bank, h Front. 

Stone James T., (Dorwin, Rich & Stone) h Front. 

Stone William P., retired merchanti h Front. 

Storm Cora, teacher, bds. 36 Adaline. 

Storm Elias P., farmer, leases of E. Brown 25, h 36 Adaline. 

Storm Elizabeth, widow Jonn C, resident, h 42 George. 

Storm John C, carpenter, bds. 42 George. 

Storms George, cartman, h 25 Adaline. 

STORRS AARON P., (Storrs, Chatfield & Co.) h River, South Side. 

STORRS AARON P., Jr., (Storrs, Chatfield & Co.) h River, South Side. 

STORRS, CHATFIELD & CO., (A. P. S., J. R. C, A. P. S., Jr., and G. 
S. C.) hardware, Front cor. Lake. 

Stout Richard S., resident, h 212 E. Temple. 

STRAIT EDWARD E., (Coburn & -Strait) h King Block, Lake. 

Strait Julia A., widow William, bds. 48 Talcott. 

Strait Seeley P., resident, h 190 E. Temple. 

Strang Anna L., widow Charles R., resident, h 83 Paige. 

Strang Benjamin H., teamster, h 20 Talcott. 

STRANG GEORGE H., teaming, h 47 Talcott. 

STRATTON EDWIN, (Hastings & Stratton), h 383 Front. 

Straus Alfred M., clerk, bds. 147 Main. 

Straus Julius L , prop. "New York Bazaar," ladies' furnishing goods, 43 
Lake,h 147 Main. 

Strong Lewis, carpenter, h 258 North ave. 

Sullivan Ellen, widow John, resident, h Temple. 

Sullivan Frank, resident, bds. i Temple. 

Sullivan Hannah, widow Nathaniel, cook, h 87 Fox. 

Sullivan James, contractor and builder, 58 Liberty, h do. 

Sullivan William, salesman, bds. i Temple. 



OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 145 



Swartout Abrain, emp. foundry, h 159 Temple. 

Swartout Caroline, teacher, bds. 159 Temple. 

Swartout Helen, teacher, bds. 159 Temple. 

Swartwout George W., laborer, h 70 Fox. 

Sweeney Dennis J., painter, bds. 137 Erie. 

Sweeney Edward F., fireman, h 50 Delphine. 

Sweeney James, book-keeper, h 126 Fox. 

Sweeney John, brakeman, bds. t8o North ave. 

Sweeney John E., saloon, 88 North ave., bds. 126 Fox. 

Sweeney Kate, widow Edward, h 180 North ave. 

Sweeney Maggie G., tailoress, bds. 137 Eri6. 

Sweeney Margaret, widow Thomas, h loi Erie. 

Sweeney Margaret L., widow Dennis, h 137 Erie. 

Sweeney Matie L., book-keeper. Lake, bds. 137 Erie. 

Sweeney Michael, laborer, bds. loi Erie. 

Sweeney Michael, engineer, h 180 North ave. 

Sweeney Thomas, laborer, bds. 101 Erie. 

SWEET BROS. (J. R. and est. of G. W.), boots and shoes, 54 North ave. 

SWEET JOHN R., (Sweet Bros.) h over 54 North ave. 

Sweet Rose E., widow George W., livery, rear 64 and 68 North ave., h over 

64 do. , 
Sweig Saul, tailor, bds. 93 Liberty. 

Sykes Maria B., widow Edward, boarding-house. 313 Main. 
SYKES THEODORE P., carpenter, h 52 Liberty. 
Talcott Francis B., harness-maker, h 67 Paige. 
Talcott George, farmer 70, h North ave. cor. Talcott. 
Talcott Harriet, widow William C, h 363 Front. 
Tate Emma, teacher, bds. 5 1 Front. 
Taylor Alonzo A., gardener, h John R. 
Taylor Annie M., widow James E., h 194 River, South Side. 
Taylor Daniel G., retired, h 317 Front. 
Taylor Ellen, tailoress, bds. 73 Liberty. 

Taylor James H., book-keeper Campbell's Tannery, bds. Front cor. Paige. 
Taylor James R., blacksmith, bds. South Side. 
TAYLOR JOHN J., lawyer, Front cor. Court, h Front. 
TAYLOR JOHN L., resident, h 377 Front. 
Taylor Julia, widow William C, h over 100 North ave. 
Taylor Susan, widow James, resident, h 41 Fox. 
Taylor Robert J., fancy goods and notions, bds. 377 Front. 
Temple M. D. Mrs., widow Austin J., h 125 Main. 
Tench Richard, emp. Dean's tannery, h near tannery, North ave. 
Terrill L. Fontenell, contractor, h 100, Franklin. 

TERWILLIGER BENJAMIN D., mason and bricklayer, h 120 North ave. 
Terwilliger Jesse E., brick-mason, h 305 Prospect. 
Thatcher Sumner, locomotive engineer, h 137 North ave. 
Thayer Arthur P., emp. Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h 44 Adaline. 
Thayer William, harness-maker, h Main. 
*THE OWEGO MUTUAL BENEFIT ASSOCIATION, J. J. Van Kleeck, 

sec'y, 30 Lake. 
THOMAS ALEXANDER J., florist and green-house. Main h do. 
THOMAS CHARLES C, retired, h 322 Main. 
Thomas Ida C, teacher, bds. 44 Talcott. 
Thomas Lewis, mail-carrier, h over 59 North ave. 

10 



146 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

THOMAS MOSES H., dealer in the "Bradley" reapers, mowers and horse- 
rakeSj full line of Syracuse chilled plows, cultivaters, and sulky plows, 
the "clipper" chilled, reversible and sulky plows, of Elmira, and a gene- 
ral line of agricultural implements, 64 Temple, h 112 Liberty. 

Thomas Samuel H., hotel and restaurant 54 South Depot, h do. 

Thomas William H., saloon and restaurant, 154 North ave., h do. 

Thomas William W., farmer 60, h 44 Talcott. 

Thomas Wilnettie, teacher, bds. 44 Talcott. , 

Thompson A. Chase, (G. T. Sons & Co.) h loi Front. 

Thompson Ambrose B., machine shop 62 Temple, h 93 West ave. 

THOMPSON ANTHONY D., excise comraissioner,andErie R. R. conductor, 
h 382 Main. 

THOMPSON CLARENCE A., cashier Owego Nat. Bank, h 18 Front. 

Thompson George H., book-keeper Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., bds. 311 
Main . 

Thompson George W., laborer, h 105 Green. 

Thompson Harry G., clerk Owego Nat. Bank, bds. E. Main. 

Thompson John M., sewing machines and organs, 107 North ave., bds. do.. 

Thorington Levi, gardener, h 178 River, South Side. 

Thorn Warren, teamster, bds. 8 W. Main. 

, Thornton Jeremiah, basket-maker, h 32 W. Main. 

THURSTON CHESTER P., grocery, 176 Front, and village clerk, h 145 
Temple. 

Thurston George, farmer, h 105 North ave. 

Thurston Frederick G., groceries and fish, 130 North ave., h over iii do. 

Thurston George S. clerk, bds. over 63 North ave. 

Thurston William C, clerk, h over 63 North ave. 

Tickner Byron J., harness-maker, bds. Dugan House. 

Tierney Charles, harness-maker, h over 17 Lake. 

Tilbury Edgar E., clerk, h Temple. 

Tilbury Edward, emp. L. Matson, h North ave. 

Tillotson James E., confectionery and cigars, 86 North ave., h Temple cor. 
Spencer ave. 

TINKHAM HARRIET, widow David P., h 127 N-orth ave. 

Tinkham Lois, widow Standish S., h 120 North ave. 

TIOGA NATIONAL BANK OF OWEGO, (T. C. Piatt, prest., F. K 
Piatt, cashier) 199 Front. 

Tomkins Eber L., postal clerk, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 

Towsand Alva, emp. Erie freight house, h 103 Spencer ave. 

Towsand Jeremiah, brakeman, h 67 McMaster. 

Tracy Ellen P., widow George W., resident, h 57 Central ave. 

Treat Betsey, widow Sylvester, h Decker Block, Main. 

Trimnell John, laborer, h 100 Spencer ave. 

Tripp Daniel, watch repairer lo Lake, h do. 

Tripp Frank, painter, h 204 North ave. 

Truax Anna E , widow Isaac R., h 91 Liberty. 

Truesdell Lewis W., tinsmith, plumber, &c., h 64 McMaster. 

Truman Benjamin L., groceries 182 Front, h 329 Main. 

Truman Emily M., widow Lyman, h Front. 

TRUMAN FRANCIS W., (Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co ) h Front. 

TRUMAN G. SONS & CO., (G. & G. Truman, Jr., and A. Chase Thomp- 
son) produce, 174 Front. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 147 



TRUMAN GEORGE (Truman, Sons & Co.) also prest. First Nat. Bank, 
h 374 Pront. 

TRUMAN GEORGE, Jr., (Truman, Sons & Co.) bds. 374 Front. 

Truman Gilbert T., county supt. of the poor, h 391 Front. 

Truman,' Stephen S., clerk., bds. Main. 
J"RUMAN WILLIAM S., cashier First Nat. Bank, h 347 Front. 

Trutchey Erastus, express driver, h 45 Temple. 

Tuch Isaac, dry and fancy goods, 198 Front, h 54 Temple. 

Tuch Louis, retired, bds. 60 Spencer ave. 

Tuch Meyer H., variety store, 202 Front, h 317 E. Main. 

Tuch Morris R., salesman, bds. 54 Temple. 

Tuck George, manager Whiteson's clothing store. Front, h 264 Main. 

Tucker Oren, drayman, h 57 Adaline. 

Turner Edwin B., retired Congregjttional clergyman, h 371 Main, 

Tuthill Demon C, retired, h 121 Temple. 

Tuttle Joel A., produce, h 21 Fulton. 

Tuttle Minnie, milliner, bds. 92 Adaline. 

Tuttle Wilbert, emp. foundry, h 92 Adaline. 

Tuttle William H., emp, foundry, h 92 Adaline. 

Tyler Isaiah, laborer, h South Side. 

United States Express Co., F. F. Hutchins, agent, 34 Lake. 

Upham Macus K., carpenter, h 5 Temple. 

UPTON ALBERT H., sup't Dean's tarinery, bds. 279 Main. 

VanAuken Alvin, hack-driver, h 22 John. 

VanAuken Benjamin, hackman, h 72 Central ave. 

VanAuken Russell, porter Central House, bds. do. 

VanBrunt Henry, carpenter, h 20 Temple. 

VanBrunt Margaret, widow William, h 20 Temple. 

VanBuren Elmer L., stage-driver, h 23 Temple. 

VanDemark Rebecca, widow James, bds. 27 Adaline. 

VanDerlip Wesley W., brakeman, h 16S Temple. 

VanFleet James, mason, h Blade building. 

VanGorder Elizabeth, widow Charles E., h 118 Paige. 

VanGorder Fred C, machinist, h 118 Paige. 

*VAN KLEECK JOHN J., county clerk, fire and life insurance, sec'y Cruci- 
form Casket Co.,western loans and investments, Court House, h 228 Main. 

J. J. '%7'A.:iv Kir^EjEjOK:, 

X^ipe. Ir)su2?e[r)ce etrjd. r\<z,2il Oslafe /iq"e.r)f^ 

AND NEGOTIATOR OF 

FIRST-CLASS WESTERN FARM MORTGAGE SECURITIES. 



Buildings and property insured in the best of companies, at current rates, and losses fairly and promptly 
adjusted. 

Parties wishing to sell or buy Real Estate, can generally be accommodated by entrusting their w^nts 
tome. 

No further need of having your money lie idle. All my Western Farm Mortgages are No. i, and the 
land increases4'h value every year. Interest and principal payable at your own bank on the day it becomes 
due. No^raon wbo has allowed me to loan their money has ever lost a single dollar in the fifteen years of 
my expenence. . - , . , , 

My.'bnly charge to the investor is one dollar on each $ioo invested at time of making the loan. Letters 
of inquiry solicited, and promptly answered. 

Owego, Tioga Co., N. Y. 



148 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Vanover David, ice-peddler, h 138 Central ave. 

Vanover Frank W., clerk, bds. River, South Side. 

Vanover Jacob, carpenter, h River, South Side. 

Vanover James H., carpenter, h River, South Side. 

VANOVER WESLEY, emp. Chamberlain's boot and shoe factory , h 54 

Liberty. 
VanPatten Abram, resident, bds. 582 Main. 
VanPatten PYederick, farm laborer, h 582 Main. 
Vargason Welton W., emp. Gere, Truman, Piatt & Co., h Gere. 
Vermilyea Abram, carpenter, h 39 West ave. 
Vetter John G., tanner, h near tannery, North ave. 
' Vickery Almira B., widow John, h 84 Paige. 
VICKERY CHARLES S., piano tuner, h 84 Paige, 
Vincelett John, mason, h 79 Forsyth. 
Vose Charles E., resident, bds. 240 E. Temple, 
Vose Nancy B., widow J, Parker, h 240 E. Temple. 
Vroman Peter, farmer, bds. 32 Temple. 
Wade Charles M., carpenter, h 119 West ave. 
Wade George N., groceries and provisions, i West ave., h do. 
Wade Lewis N., cartman, h 175 North ave. 
Wade L. N. Mrs., dressmaking, 175 North ave., h do. 
Waggoner John, laborer, h off Water. 
Wagner Clarence L., upholster, h near Dean's tannery. 
Walbridge Charles M., fireman, h 40 Talcott. 
Walker Amos, carpenter, h Adaline. 
Walker Henry L., conductor, h Erie near Main. 
Walker Jesse, harnessmaker, bds. over 177 Main. 
Walker Lydia C, widow William, h 136 Temple. 
Walker Ransom, D. D. S., dentist, over 200 and 202 Front, h do. 
Walker Rial H., carpenter, h Buckbee Block. 
WALL & CO., (Mrs. Charles and C. T. Wall) boots, shoes and rubbers, 

200 Front. 
WALL ABIGAIL F., (Wall & Co.,) widow Charles, h Front. 
WALL CLARENCE T., (Wall & Co.) h Front. 
Wallace Harry, clerk, bds. 67 Central ave. 
Wallace Lewis, laborer, h rear 123 North ave. 
Wallis Stephen S,, law student, h in Tioga. 
Walsh Lewis A., clerk, bds. 122 Paige. 
Walsh William M., tailor, h 502 Main. 
Walts John, bridge carpenter, bds. 43 Talcott. 

Walter Ralph H., farmer, leases of Mrs. JuUa Kellogg 70, h 73 Forsyth. 
Wand James, laborer, bds. 63 Spencer ave. 
Ward Anna E., widow Willard W., h 499 Front. 
Ward Daniel, laborer, h 109 Franklin. 
Ward Edward, emp. foundry, bds. 109 Franklin. 
Ward Ezra, mason, h South Side. 
Ward Frances L., dressmaker, bds. South Side. 
Ward Kate M., book-keeper, 229 McMaster, h 48 West ave. 
Ward John F., clerk Ah-wa-ga House, bds. do. 
Ward Laura F., teacher, bds. South Side. 
Ward Michael, laborer, bds. 109 Franklin. 
Ward Patrick, drayman, h 47 West ave. 
Ward Polly R., widow William, h 51 West ave. 



OWEGO— INSIDE CORPORATION. 



149 



Ward Thomas J., drayman, h 48 West ave. 

WARNER FRANK H., contractor and builder, Fox, h 122 Franklin. 

Warner Montgomery, saloon and restaurant, 203 Front, h do. 

Warner William M., baker, h Buckbee Block. 

Warren Lamira, widow Charles W., h 102 Chestnut. 

Warrick Lillie J., teacher, bds. 363 Front. 

Watkins Annie, clerk, bds. Main. 

Watkins Charles D., lawyer, over 168 Front, h 571 East Main. 

Watkins Frederick, blacksmith, bds. 142 Central ave. 

Wrtkins HoUis, stationary engineer, 212 North ave. 

Watkins Miner D., clerk, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 

Watkins William, traveling salesman, h 391 Main. 

WATROS ODELL J., (Scott & Watros) h 234 North ave. 

Watson Harmon S., drover, h Canal Front. 

Watson James, painter, h 89 Franklin. 

Watson Wallace, emp. casket shop, h 61 George. 

Way William E., carpenter and saw-filer, 174 North ave., h do. 

Webb James, carriage-painter, 72 Temple, h 97 Forsyth. 

WEBSTER GEORGE H., painter and paper-hanger ; decorative work a. 

specialty, 242 East Temple, h do. 
WEBSTER GILBERT E., meat-market, 133 North ave., h over 131 do. 
Webster James, resident, h 25 John. 
Webster Mason, painter, h 4 Fox. 
Webster Rachel E., widow Charles, h 350 Main. 
Webster William H., painter, bds. 88 Adaline. 
Wedon Herbert, harness-maker, bds. Decker Block, Main. 
Weed & Co., (J. D. & G. W. Weed) custom saw, grist and planing-mill. 

River, South Side. 
Weed George W., (J. D. & G. W. Weed) h River, South Side. 
Weed John D., (J. D. & G. W. Weed) h River, South Side. 
Weed Joseph H., emp. Weed & Co.'s mill, bds. River, South Side. 
Welch Charles, carpenter, h Adaline. 
WELCH DAVID A., contractor and builder, cane-chairs reseated and 

general repairing, 243 Prospect, h do. 
WELCH GEORGE H., clerk, bds. 243 Prospect. 
Welch Harriet, widow Hiram, bds. 243 Prospect. 
Welch William H., contractor and builder, 267 Prospect, h do. 
Wentz Sarah, widow Rev. William, h loi Franklin. 
Whipple Daniel A., farmer, h 139 Main. 

Whipple Sisters, (Martha A., Addie and Emma) dressmakers, 139 Main, h do. 
Whipple William, hostler, bds. Ah-wa-ga House. 
WhitakerA. B. Mrs., widow, bds. 41 Front. 
WHITE & HUMISTON, (P. H. W. and F. M. H.) drugs and medicines, 

194 Front. 
White Chajles, meat market, 36 Lake, h 64 Liberty. 
White Darius, mason, h over 154 Front. 
White Delia, widow Perry, milliner, h 5 1 Fox. 
White Frederick, bartender, bds. 187 McMaster. 
White Henry O., emp. King & Co., bds. 64 Liberty. 
White John, carpenter, h 26 William. 

WHITE PAUL H., (White &: Humiston) bds., Ah-wa-ga House. 
White Roderick, laborer, h 187 McMaster. 
White Tryphena P., dressmaker, bds. 58 Spencer ave. 



150 OWEGO — INSIDE CORPORATION. 

Whiteson Isidor, (George Tuck, manager) clothing, 201 Front, h at Cortland. 

Whitfield Samuel, laborer, h 239 Prospect. 

Whitfield Samuel Mrs., laundress, 239 Prospect. 

Whitmarsh Polly, widow Daniel, bds. 18 Fulton. 

Whitney Nathan R., engineer, h 128 Temple. 

Whitton Fred, meat-cutter, h 103 Paige. 

Wicks L. Emraet, bookkeeper, 19 and 21 Lake, bds. 239 Main. 

Wiggins Maria, widow John, h John R. 

Wilbur Lebbeus, traveling salesman, h 496 Main. 

Wilbur William E., boots, shoes and restaurant. 182 Main, h do. 

Wilcox Sarah A. Mrs., resident, h 67 Paige. 

WILCOX JOHN A., repair foreman Erie R. R. car shop, h 239 Main. 

Williams Abram, gunsmith, h 132 Main. 

WILLIAMS ALBERT S., bridge inspector, h 106 Chestnut. 

Williams Burton, erap. C. M. Haywood, h 147 Temple. 

Williams Charles D., laborer, h 99 Paige. 

Williams Chester D., bridge carpenter, h 59 West ave. 

Williams Daniel, gardener, h John R. 

Williams Edward W., carpenter, h 119 Main. 

WiUiams Fred D., drug clerk, bd?. Park Hotel. 

Williams George, porter, bds. 115 Fox. 

Williams Henry F., produce, h 32 William. ' 

Williams Laura M., widow Thomas, h George. 

Williams Maria A., widow Thomas, h 115 Fox. 

Williams Marshall G., salesman, h 27 Ross. 

Williams Morgan, teamster, h Water. 

Williams Nathan L., emp. Campbell's tannery, bds. George. 

Williams William B., farm laborer, h George. 

WilUamson Charles, (Leverson & Williamson) h Erie. 

Williamson Loesa, resident, bds. 241 Erie. 

Willis William, laborer, h 257 Prospect. 

*WILSON JAMES, physician and surgeon, 295 Main, h do. 

WILSON OPERA HOUSE, S. F. Fairchild, manager. Lake. 

Winans Edwin W., clerk, h 58 Spencer ave 

Winions William, laborer, h r49 Erie. 

Winne Catharinej widow Peter, h i r Fox. 

Winnie Franklin, farmer h 1 1 Fox. 

Winner James, cartman, h Division. 

Winow Simon P., barber, bds. Fox. 

Wilsey Kelsey, painter, h over 62 North ave. 

Wilson Samuel, tanner, bds. 187 McMaster. 

Wilts Portis L., emp. drill works, h 140 Central ave. 

Wiltse Kelsey, painter, h 104 Spencer ave. 

Wiltse William, saloon, 65 North ave. 

WINTERS EDGAR, (Starkey & Winters) h John. 

Winters Judson B., (Hyde & Winters) h Main cor. Spencer ave. 

Witters Ralph C, retired, h 94 Chestnut. 

Woeppel Alvis, gardener for A. J. Thomas, bds. Main. 

WOOD CHARLES L., (Buckbee, Peterson, Wood & Co.) bds. 364 Front. 

Wood, George H., blacksmith. North ave., h 104 Franklin. 

Wood Hester, widow William, h 76 Talcott. 

Wood Lydia, dressmaker, 76 Talcott, bds. do. 

SXARKEY & IVINTERS, Wholesale and Retail Drngglsts, Ovrego. 



OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 151 

Woodard Lucretia, widow Joseph, h 4 West ave. 

Woodburn David M., laborer, h 43 Talcott. 

Woodford Bissell, farmer 200, h 417 Front. 

Woodford Charles G., teller First Nat. Bank, bds. 374 Main. 

Woodford George R., clerk, bds. 417 Front. 

Works Frederick, emp. casket factory, h over 161 Main. 

Works Russell S., shoe-cutter, h Park cor. Main. 

Worthington Jennie, widow Robert, resident, h 5 1 Front. 

Woughter Adelaide, widow Lysander G., bds. 15 Adaline. 

Woughter Charles, emp. Lincoln coal yard, h 104 Spencer ave. 

Woughter Eugene F., emp. foundry, h 15 AdalinC; 

Wright Albert G., retired, h 222 E. Temple. 

Wright Frank N., moulder, h 89 Paige. 

Wright Frederick, painter, h 222 E Temple. 

Wright Joseph A., tinsmith, bds. 467 Front. 

Wright Patrick, laborer, h 121 Paige. 

Writer Gabriel M., conductor N. Y. L. E. & W. R. R., h 381 Mafa. 

Writer Lena M., teacher, bds. 381 Main. 

Wyckoff Abram, type-writer and stenographer, bds. Dugan House. 

Wyman William, harness-maker, ri2 North ave.; bds. Central ave. 

Wyman WilUam, tailor, h 78 Paige. 

Yates Alanson, (Sheldon & Yates) h 114 Liberty. 

Yates Mary L. Mrs., teacher, h 194 River, South Side. 

Yerks Catherine, resident, bds. 31 Adaline. 

Yerks Clarissa, carpet-weaver, h 31 Adaline. 

Yerks Emmet, farm laborer, h 40 Adaline. 

Yerks William A., carpenter, h 246 E. Temple. 

Yost Mary E. Mrs., hair-worker, h over Owego Nat. Bank. 

Yothers Charles D., book-keeper First Nat. Bank, h 433 Front. 

Yothers Horace, telegraph operator, D. L. & W. depot, bds. 433 Front. 

Young H. Earl, clerk, bds. 455 Main. 

Zimmer Al, carpenter, h 66 Adaline. 

Zweig Samuel, clerk, bds. Central House. 

O-VSTEJOO 

ou'rssii:>E> ooRr»oieiVTio]v. 

{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second^ 

(Postoffice address is Owego, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Ahem Daniel, (Apalachin) r 69, book-keeper. 
Akerly Charles, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 
Akerly Jerry, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 
Aldrich Aaron, (Apalachin) r 81, farmer. 
■ Aldrich Charles, (Apalachin) off r 81, farm laborer. 
Aldrich Charles E., r 95, farmer with his mother Minerva H. 
Aldrich Frederick, (Apalachin) retired, h Main. 
Aldrich Heman B., (Apalachin) resident, bds. Main. 

STARKEV Sc IJTINXERS, promptly fill Mall and Telephone Orders. 



152 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Aldrich Melvin O.. r 95, farmer 20. 

Aldrich Minerva H., r 96, widow Olney, farm 50. 

Alger Phineas, r 56^, cooper. 

Allen John, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farm laborer. 

Allen Reuben, (Flemingville) r 4, retired farmer. 

Ames Lydia, (Apalachin) r 80, resident. 

AMES PHINEAS N., r 65, farmer 6. 

Anaville Charles, r 117, farmer, leases of Mr. Thomas 130. 

Andrews Romeo, r 40, butcher and cattle dealer. 

Arinable Jarvis B., r 95, farmer 50. 

Anson Mary, (Apalachin) widow Amos, resident, h Main. 

Appleby Francis, (Union Broome Co.) r 30, farm laborer. 

Arnold George, (Apalachin) r 70, farm laborer. 

Ayer Mary A., (Apalachin) widow Isaac, resident, h Main. 

Ayer Warren, (Apalachin) r 83, farmer 125. 

Ayers Charles, r 94, physician. 

Ayers Loren F., r 94, farmer. 

Bailey James, r 42, farmer 82. 

Bailey Thomas, r 42, farmer. 

Bakeman David, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 3. 

Bakeman Philip, (Gaskill's Corners) r 12, farmer 95. 

Baker Albert E., r 54, farmer for C. LaMonte. 

Baker Charles, (Apalachin) carpenter, h Ferry. 

Baker E. Vandaber, (Flemingville) r 6, farmer 54, and in Newark Valley 25. 

Baker William, (Flemingville) r 6, farm laborer. 

Ballard James, (Campville) r 54, peddler. 

Ballou Hartwell M., r 12, wagon-maker, carpenter and farmer 25. 

Ballou Wendell D., r 56J, music teacher. 

Banney John F., (Apalachin) r 103, farmer with his father Ransom. 

Barker Chauncey, (Apalachin) r 113, farmer 30. 

Barker Chauncey, jr., r 113, farmer 36. 

Barker Simeon, (Apalachin) r 113, farmer. 

Barnes Newton W. Rev., (Apalachin) pastor M. E. Church, h Church. 

Barnes Reed A., r 67, farmer 75. 

Barney E. Allen, (Apalachin) resident, h Church. 

Barney Ransom (Apalachin) r 103, farmer 55. 

Barnhart Alanson D., r 69, farm laborer. 

BARRETT EUGENE, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 117. 

Barrett Simeon L., (Flemingville) r 40, farmer 80. 

Barton Albert, (Apalachin) r 87, farmer. 

Barton Andrew J., (Flemingville) r 5, farmer 100. 

Barton Charles, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer with his mother Jane. 

Barton Charles L., (Apalachin) r 87, butcher. 

Barton Effy A. Mrs., off r 54, ptop. LaMonte ferry. 

Barton George H., (Apalachin; off r 108, farmer 40. 

Barton Jane, (Apalachin) r 108, widow Isaac, farmer 107. 

Barton Lester, (Union, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 40. 

Barton Louis A., r 94, carpenter and farmer 47. 

Barton Rebecca W., r loij, widow Morris W., resident. 

Barton Renselaer, off r 54, blacksmith and farmer. 

Barton Smith, Jr., (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 80. 

Barton Thomas, (Apalachin) r 86, farmer. 

Barton Thomas, r 87, carpenter and farmer. 



OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 53 



Barton Virgil P., (Flemingville) r 5, fanner 80. 

Barton William, (Apalachin) r 89^, farmer 45. 

Barton William. (Apalachin) produce, h William. 

Barto Charles, (Apalachin) laborer, h Church. 

Bateman Isaac, (Campville) r 48, farmer 40. 

Bates German A., (Apalachin) r 113, farmer with his father Gilford. 

Bates Gilford, (Apalachin) r 113, farmer 40. 

Beach George W., (Apalachin) physician and surgeon, Main, h Ferry. 

Beach Olive, r 56, widow Nathan, farmer 33. 

Beardslee William L., (South Owego) r 128, farmer 114. 

Becker Fayette, r 54, retired farmer. 

Beebe Orin, (South Apalachin) r no, postal clerk and farmer. 

Beebe Reuben (South Apalachin) r no, farmer 119. 

Beecher Edgar R., r 39, farmer with his father, Isaac S. 

Beecher Isaac S., r 39, farmer 71. 

BEEMAN HORACE W., r 116, wood-sawing and feed-mill, and farmer 40. 

Beers Charles M., r 32, farmer 47. 

Beers Julia M., r 40, widow James, farmer 65. 

Belknap John J., (Campville) r 71, farmer 120. 

Belknap Parmelia Miss, (Campville) r 71, resident. 

Bell John, (Apalachin) trackman, bds. Exchange Hotel. 

Benjamin Albert, r 95, farmer 55. 

Benjamin J. Allan, r 95, farmer with his father Albert. 

Benjamin James, r 95, retired. 

Benjamin James U., r 117, farmer 165. 

Benner Louise E., (Apalachin) music teacher, bds. Main. 

Benner Ordelia, (Apalachin) widow Philip R., resident, h Main. 

Bennett William (Campville) r 49, farmer. 

Berdine Laramie, (South Apalachin) r 10, widow William, resident. 

Berdine William P., (South Apalachin) r no, farmer 186. 

Billings Charles, (Little 'Meadows, Pa.) r no, farmer 28. 

Billings Norman, (Apalachin) r no, farmer 55. 

Billings Ransom, (Apalachin) r 102, farmer on shares with Almoa Hotchkiss. 

Bills Alonzo, (South Apalachin) r in, deputy postmaster. 

Bills Amari, (Apalachin) off r 107, farmer 30. 

Bills James H., r 98, school trustee and farmer 100. 

Bills Maria, (Apalachin) r no, widow Warren, farm 125. 

Bills Nehemiah, (Apalachin) laborer. 

Bills Paul, (Apalachin) r loi^, farmer 6. 

Bills Ulysses, r 99, farmer 25. 

Bishop Gilbert, (Apalachin) carpenter, h Main. 

Blair Asa, (Flemingville)) r 40, farmer. 

Blair Ezra, r 39, farm laborer. 

BLOW AMANDA, r 120, widow Francis, farm 50. 

Blow Arthur, r ri6J, farmer on shares with H. Codner 90. 

BLOW FRANK L., r 59, prop, threshing-machine and farmer 25. 

Blow George, r 96, farmer with his father Henry. 

Blow Henry, r 96, farmer 80. 

Blow William, r 120, farmer 18, and on shares with his mother Amanda 50. 

Bodle Arthur, r 59, farmer. 

Bornt Anna Mrs., r 54, farm 35. 

Bornt Frederick, (Campville) r 48, farmer 80. 

Bornt Levi, (Union, Broome Co.) r 73, farmer 91. 



154 OWE.GO---OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Bortit Peter, (Campville) r 50, farmer 10. 

Bornl Samuel, (Carapville) r 48, farmer 40. 

Bornt William H., (Union, Broome Co.) r 73, farmer with his father Levi. 

Bostwick Curtis, r 95, farmer 52. 

Bostwick Fred, r 116^, farmer 138. 

Bostwick Melvin F., r 40, farmer 105. 

Bostwick Oliver, r izo^-, farmer 50. 

Bostwick Spencer, r 117, farmer 70. 

Bostwick Thomas, r 117, farmer 85. 

Bostwick Willis, r 117, farmer 40. 

Bourst Menzo, r 61, farm laborer. 

Bowen Isaac A., r 96, law student. 

Bowen Jonathan P., r 96, farmer 50. 

Bowen William J., r 94, farmer, leases of J. F. Holmes 55. 

Boyce John R., (Apalachin) clerk for Sleeper & Whitaker, bds. Main. 

Bradley Otis, r 56J, farmer 33. 

Bradt Anthony, r 37, farmer 15. 

Bradt Frank, r 43, farmer, works on shares for his father John 108. 

Bradt John, r 38, farmer 108. 

Bradt Peter, r 43, farmer 40. 

Brainard Polly, (South Owego) r 99, widow Albert, resident. 

Branch Andrew, (Campville) r 54, shoemaker. 

Branch Charles, (Campville) r 54, brakeman. 

Brewster John, (Apalachin) off r 102, farmer 50. 

Briggs Anson, r 14, farmer 60. 

Briggs Charles, r 54, farmer, leases of Mrs. George Smith 83. 

Brink Jefferson H., r 58, farm laborer. 

Brink Mulford, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer for his father John 60. 

Brink William, (Apalachin) r 69, farm laborer. 

Brooks Henry G., (Campville) r 53, farmer 69. 

Brooks John, (Campville) r 53, retired farmer. 
Brooks John G., r 95, farmer 19. 

Brougham Henry A., r 94, farmer 10. 

Brougham Joseph, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer, leases of William 
Conell 200. 

Brougham Peter, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 11, farmer 50. 

Brown Asel, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r no, farmer 50. 

Brown Edgar, (Apalachin) r 8r, farmer. 

Brown Frank, (Litte Meadows, Pa.) r no, farmer, 98. 

Brown Frank L., (Apalachin) painter, h Cross. 

Brown George, (Union, Broome Co.) r 80, school trustee, and farmer 125. 

Brown Royal S., (Apalachin) butcher, h Main. 

Brown Simeon, (Apalachin) r 83, farmer 27. 

Brown William H., (Apalachin) farm laborer. 

Brownell Benjamin W,, r 40, farmer 50 and wood lot 36. 

Brownell George, r 40, farmer with his father Benjamin W. 

Brownell John C, (Flemingville) r 22, farmer 84 and wood lot 86. 

Brumage Ann, (Flemingville) r 5, widow William, resident. 

Bruraage David, (Flemingville) r 5, farmer 20. 

Buck Alonzo D., r 54, farmer 461^. 

Buck Charles W,, r 54, carpenter and farmer. 

Buck George H., r 54, carpenter. 

BUNZEY CHARLES H., r 63, farmer, works on shares 150. 



- OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 155 

Bunzey Sophia, r 63, widow Jacob, resident. 
Burgett Robert, r 20, farmer 80. ' 

Burton Amelia, (South Owego) r 128, widow Obadiah, farm 100. 

Burton Ann, (Apalachin) r 83, widow Benjamin. 

Burton Oliver, (South Owego) r tz8, farmer 50. 

Cafferty Asa, (Campville) r 71, farmer 120. 

Cafferly Fayette, (Campville) r 48, farmer 55. 

Cafferty Frank B., r 54, farmer 50. 

Cafferty James, (Union, Broome Co.) r 74, farmer 200. 

Cafferty James, jr., (Union, Broome Co.) r 74, farmer 50. 

Cafferty Myron, r 93, farmer, leases of James Armstrong 105. 

CAMP GURDON H., (Apalachin) horse dealer, h Main. 

■Camp Nathan, (Campville) r 71, farmer 129. 

Camp Orin, r 54, threshing machine and farm laborer. 

CAMPBELL & LAMPHERE, (Apalachin) (L W. C. & G. U. L.) saw and 
planning-mill, depot. 

Campbell David S., r 94, farmer 85. 
• CAMPBELL ISAAC W., (Apalachin) (Campbell & Lamphere) h depot. 

Campbell John A., r 94, farmer with his father. 

Canipbell Joseph, r 93, farmer, leases of Elin Gould 160. 

Campbell Joseph, Jr., r 93, emp. Coe's saw-mill. 

Campbell Ralph, r 94, fireman Coe's mill. 

Cane Ezra, r 65, farmer on shares with Mrs. Steele 105. 

Cane Peter, r 65, farmer with his father Ezra, 

Card Abel, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 27. 

Card Albert, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer with his mother Eliza 24. 

Card Charles, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 24. 

Card David, (Apalachin) r 108. farmer 32. 

Card Eliza, (Apalachin) r 108, widow Harrison, farm 24. 

Card Henry, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer with his mother Eliza 24. 

Card Isaac, (Flemingville) r 4, engineer. 

Card John, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer with his father David 32. 

Ca'rleton M. Dwight, r 69, farm laborer. 

Carman Charles, (Apalachin) r 80, farm laborer. 

Carpenter Albert J,, r 97,' farmer 54. 

Carpenter Ann M., r 40, widow Joseph S., resident. 

Carrier A. B,, (Apalachin) laborer, h Biver, 

Carrier Hartley, (Apalachin) r 1 13, farmer, leases of Simeon Barker 50. 

Carte Louise, r 54, widow Eli, farmer 50. 

Case Daniel, (Campville) r 71, farmer 50. 
' Case Hiram, (Campville) r 48, farmer 50. 

Case Marilla D., (Campville) widow Zenos, resident. 

Case Peter, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 50. 

Castle Albert, r 4, laborer. 

Catlin George L., (Apalachin) r 96, supt. Marshland.stock farm. 

Catlin Jacob, (Apalachin) farmer 40, h Main. 

Central House, (Apalachin) Alanson Goodenow, prop., h do. 

Chaffee Elizabeth, r 96, widow Oliver P., resident. 

Chandler Harrison, r 120 J, farmer. 

Chapman Horace, r 96, resident. 

Chidester John, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 133, farmer. 

Childs Mark W., (Campville) r 54, school teacher. 



IS6 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Claphacn Harry J., (Flemingville) r 2, manager and prop. Globe Theatre Co., 
and farmer i6o. 

Clark David L., (Apalachin) r 68, farmer 75. 

Clark James, r 93, farmer 100. 

Clanson Albert, (Apalachin) r 70, farmer on shares with W. Hilton 50. 

Codner Charles N., r 116, farmer with his father Nelson. 

Codner Hiram, r 116, farmer 90. 

Codner John, (East Nichols) off r 118, farmer 100. 

Codner Nelson, r 116, farmer 100. 

Coffin Frank, (South Apalachin) r 1 28, farmer with his father. 

Coffin Harvey, farm laborer. 

Coffin Lucy, (South Owego)r 128, widow Henry, resident. 

Coffin William H., (Sbuth Apalachin) r 128, farmer 75, and on shares with 
F. D. Coffin 130. 

Cole Abram, r 40, farmer 75. 

Cole Helen, r 40, matron County Alms House. 

Cole William T., off r 65, farmer 25. 

Coleman Peter, (Carapville)r 54, trackman. 

Conant Emery, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r no, farmer. 

Congdon Amos, (East Nichols) r 119, farmer 100. 

Conklin Alfred, r 39, farmer 160. 

Conklin Charles H., r 54, farmer, leases of Mrs. Anson Decker, 60. 

ConkUn David, (Apalachin) farm laborer, h River. 

Conklin Lewis D., r 60, mason. 

Conklin Marcus A., (Apalachin) bds. River. 

Conklin Matthew H., (Apalachin) laborer, bds. River. 

Conklin William, r 40, carriage-maker. 

Connant Simeon, r 1 1 7, blacksmith. 

Connell Edward, r 60, farmer 20. 

Connell Joseph, r 60, resident. 

Connor Martin, (Campville) r 54, trackman. 

Cooper Charles, (Union, Broome Co.) r 30, farmer 70. 

Cooper George P., (Apalachin) r 80, farmer on shares with F. Aldrich 40. 

Cooper Hiram, (Apalachin) r 84, farmer. 

Coots Henry D., r 42, milk dealer and farmer, works on shares for Reuben 
Eraser 140. 

Corbin Arthur L., (South Owego) r 122, farmer 30, and on shares with My- 
ron Prince 100. 

Corbin George, r 6g, farm laborer. 

Corbin Neweil, (South Apalachin') r no, farmer 50. 

Cornell Daniel, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 150. 

Cornell Eli, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 150. 

Cornell Eugene, (Union, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 64. 

Cornell Henry, r 56, blacksmith. 

Cornell Thomas, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47J, farmer 70. 

Courtright Herbert N., (Apalachin) r 106, shoemaker. 

Cragan John, (Apalachin) mason, h William. 

Crandall Amos J., r 98, farmer on shares with Asa Stanton 135. 

Crater Samuel, r 97, farmer 50. 

Crawford Arthur, r 27, farmer 100. 

Crawford Merrills J., (South Owego) r 122, farmer 100. 

Creemon Aaron, (Apalachin) off r 80, farmer. 

Crounse Henry E., (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer 175. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 57 

Crum James, r 99, farmer 20. ■ 

Curtis Bertie D., (Gaskill's Corners), r 35 invalid. 

CURTIS HARMON, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, postmaster and prop, saw 

and feed-mill and grocery. 
Curtis Harvey, r 56^, nurseryman 2. 

Daniels Darwin H., (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 11, farmer 50. 
Daniels Douglas, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 11, farmer 60. 
Daniels George F., r 56, farmer 20. 

Daniels Gustavas, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 11, farmer 70. 
Darling Albert, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r no, farmer 70. 
Davidson John, (South Apalachin) r in, farmer 107. 
Davis Leslie R., r 95, farmer with his mother Mary A. 
Davis Mary A., r 95, widow James, farm 19. 
Davis Walter J., r 95, farm laborer. 
Davis William, r 40, farm laborer. 
Davison Lucius, (Apalachin) r 107, farmer 70. 
Decker Albert L., r 59, farm laborer. 
Decker Emanuel, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer. 
Decker Gideon, r 42, farm laborer. 
Decker John S., (Apalachin) carpenter. 
Decker John W.. r 41, farmer 85. 
Decker Jonathan, r 46, laborer. 
Decker Marvin W., r 65, farm laborer. 
Decker Narcis Mrs., r 27, resident. 
Decker Wayne, r 31, farmer. 

GeGroat J. DeWitt, r 67, musical instruments, and milk dealer. 
DeGroat Lorenzo, r 67, farmer 99. 

Delaney Richard, (Apalachin) trackman, bds. Exchange Hotel. 
Dennison Cerene, r 99, widow Henry, farm 25. 
Dennison George, r 99, farmer with his mother Cerene. 
Dennison Joseph, r 1 1 6, farm laborer. 
Deuel Augustus S., r 93, farmer 59. 
Dexter Adelia, r 54, widow Frank B., farmer 40. 
Dexter Edwin J., (Campvi)le) r 54, carpenter and farmer. 
Deyo William, r 37, farmer, works for Michael Lynch 100. 
Dickinson Ira W., (CampviUe) r 73, Methodist clergyman, and farmer 44. 
Dickinson McKenzie, (CampviUe) r 54, postmaster and grocery. 
Dingman Abraham, (Apalachin), retired, h William. 
Dingman John, (South Owego) r 128, farmer 160. 
Dodge Asa J., r 93, farmer 70. 
Dodge Benjamin F., r 93, farmer. 
Dodge Daniel S., r 93, farmer 1 20. 
Dodge John G., r 56, expressman. 
Donnelly Joanna, 93, widow John, resident. 
Donnelly Matthew, r 93, farmer 141. 
Donnovan John, off r 54, track-hand. 
Doty James, r 20, farm laborer. 
Dougherty James R., r 20, farmer. 
Dowd James, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 135, farmer. 
Downs William, (Apalachin) blacksmith, h Main. 
Dovle Bernard, (Apalachin) laborer, h Main. 
Drake Charles, (Apalachin) off r 102, farmer 40. 
Drake Tamar, (Apalachin) r 87, widow Jerome, 



153 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Duane Burr, r 99, farmer 100. 

Duane John, r 99, farmer 100. 

Dunham Asa, r 99, farmer 131. 

Dunham Burdett N., (South Apalachin) r 108, farmer. 

Dunham Chauncey R., r 43, dairy 35 cows and farmer for G. S. Camp 130. 

Dunham Dudley J., (South Apalachin) r 108, farmer. 

Dunham Jennie, (South Apalachin) r 108, teacher. 

Dunham Nathan Y., r 99, farmer. 

Dunham Sylman, (South Apalachin) r 108, farmer 95. 

Dunham Willard F., r 99, farmer. 

Dutton Mortimer E., (Apalachin) r 69, boarding-house. 

Easton Mary, (Apalachin) r 83, widow Julien G., resident. 

Edward Edward, (Campville) r 54. blacksmith. 

Edwards Edson, (Apalachin) r no, resident. 

Edwards Fred, (Apalachin) r 83, farmer with his father Ira. 

Edwards Ira, ist, (Apalachin) r 83, farmer 65. 

Edwards Ira, (Apalachin) butcher and farmer, h Main. 

Edwards Nelson, (Apalachin) r 107, resident. 

Edwards Susie, (Apalachin) r 83, dressmaker. 

Eldred Nelson, ray, farmer 60. 

Eldridge Chester, off r 27, farm laborer. 

Eldridge Simeon, (Union, Broome Co.) r 29, laborer. 

Elliott Francis H., (Apalachin) painter, h Main. 

Ellis Airy Mrs., r 39, resident. 

Ellis Nathan H., r 40, prop, grist and flouring-mill. 

Evans Truman (Campville) r 54, carpenter. 

EXCHANGE HOTEL, (Apalachin) John S. Ryan, prop., Main. 

Fairbanks Benjamin R., (Apalachin) hostler Exchange Hotel, bds. do. 

Fairbanks Benjamin R., (Apalachin) r no, laborer. 

Fairbanks Harriet E., (Apalachin) r no, farm 47^. 

Terbush Lancelott B , (Flemingville) r 16, blacksmith, wagon-maker and 

feed-mill, h r 4. 
Ferguson David, (South Owego) r 123, farmer with Mrs. Slawson 160. 
Ferguson Eugene B., (Flemingville) r 15, farmer 100. 
Fessenden Adelbert N., (_ Apalachin; resident, h Cross. 
Fessenden Nelson Rev., (Apalachin) Wesleyan Methodist, h Cross. 
Finch Jehial S., r 22, farmer 79. 
Finch Russell, r 22, farmer 25. 
Fish Frank E., (Apalachin) r 113, farm laborer. 
Fisk Darwin, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farm laborer. 
Fleming John, (Flemingville) r 40, farmer 120. 
Fleming Luke, (Flemingville) r 4, farmer 54. 
Folker Frank, (Apalachin) r 69, farm laborer. 
Ford Charles H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, carpenter. 
Ford George L., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 350. 
Foster David, (Apalachin) farm laborer. 
Foster Electa, r 27, widow Daniel R., resident. 
Foster Phileman A., (Apalachin) r loi^, farmer 6. 
Fox Alanson, off r 95, farmer 75. 
Fox Albert, (Apalachin) off r 113, retired. 
Fox Allen, r 95, farmer 50. 
Fox Charles, off r 91, apiarist, and farmer 32. 
Fox Fred, r 67, farmer 51. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 59, 

Fox Fred E., (Apalachin) r 84, farmer with E. Jones 31. 

Fox George, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer. 

Fox Ira, (East Nichols) r 118, farmer 50. 

Fox James, (Apalachin) r 113, farm laborer. 

FOX JEROME, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer, works on shares for Charles. 

Becker 120 
Fox John, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35,' laborer. 
Fox Julia A., (Apalachin) widow Charles T., resident, bds. Cross. 
Fox Lewis L., (Apalachin) telegraph operator, h WilUam. 
Fox Oliza, r 60, resident. 
Fox Russell, (Apalachin) r 113, farmer 53. 
Fox Thomas, (Campville) r 53, farm laborer. 
Fox William, r 120^, farmer 100. 

Fox William S., (Apalachin) contractor and builder, h William. 
Frear Ellas, (Apalachin) r 113, farmer. 
Frear Hannah, r 54, widow John, farmer 40. 
French WiUiam, r 91, farmer 75. ^ 

Fuller Benjamin F., (Apalachin) carriage-maker. Main, h Willi-Bm. 
Fulmer Charles, r 27, farmer 112. 
Fulmer Peter, (Gaskill's Corners) r 34, farmer 80. 
Fulmer Philip, r 22, farmer 45. 
Gage Ellen, r 54, widow Jeremiah, resident. 
Gage Ezra M., r 14, farmer 50. 

Gage Mary A. Mrs., (Apalachin) teacher, bds. Cross. 

Gage Miner, r 37, apiarist 5° swarms, and farmer 75. 

Gage Walter, r37, apiarist 38 swarms, and farmer 37. 

Garrison Chester, (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 35. 

Garrison James, (Apalachin) r 70, farm laborer. 

Gaskill David W., r 32, farmer 40. 

Gaskill Frank, r 54, milk jjeddler. 

Gaskill Paul, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer no. 

Gaskill Stephen H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer for his father Paul. 

Gaskill Wilder J., (Apalachin) retired merchant, h Main. 

Gaskill WiUiam C., (Apalachin) farmer 13, h Main. 

Gibson David W., (South Apalachin) r in, farmer on shares with Orirk 
Bebee 100. 

Gibson Frank, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 135, farmer. 

Gibson George, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer. 

Gibson William, (Apalachin) laborer, h Ferry. 

Gifford Albert R., (South Owego) r 122, farmer with his mother Sophia H. 

Gifford D^vid S.. (South Owego) r 122, farmer 100. 

Gifford Sophia H., (South Owego) r 122, widow Russell D., farm 85. 

Gile Orton, r 60, gardener. 

Giles Alexander, (South Owego) r 126, farmer. 

Giles Ebenezer, (South Owego) r 126, farmer 50. 

GILES JOHN S., (Apalachin) r 87, pres't School Board, sm ill fruit and 
hop grower, apiarist 200 swarms, and farmer ns. 

Glann George W., (Apalachin) r 80, tarmer. 

Glann James H., (Apalachin) r 83, farmer 160. 

Glann Martin, (Apalachin) r 85, farmer 50. 

Glann William (Apalachin) r 83, farmer 140. 

Glover Anson, (Apalachin) r no, farmer. 

Glover George (Apalachin) r no farmer. 



l6o OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Glover Stephen B., (Apalachin) r no farmer. 

Goodenow Abram (Apalachin) r 102, farmer 42. 

Goodenow Alanson, (Apalachin) prop. Central House, and farmer 26. 

Goodenow Chauncey B., (Apalachin) clerk Central House, bds. do. 

Goodenow Henry, (Apalachin) r 87, farmer 38. 

Goodeaow Isaac, (Apalachin) farmer 5. 

Goodenow John W., (Apalachin) hostler Central House, bds. do, 

Goodenow Peter, (Apalachin) r 87, resident. 

Goodenow Ransom B., (Apalachin) r 114, farmer on shares with his father 

Abram, 140. 
Goodrich Edwin, r 69 farmer. 
Goodrich Matthew, r 95, farmer 87. 
Goodsel A. Ford, r 56, farmer 61. 

Goodspeed Alden, r 118^, farmer too, and leases of Abner Goodspeed 50. 
Goodspeed James, (East Nichols) off r 118, farmer 100. 
Gould Andrew C, r 94, farm laborer. 
Gould Charles P., r 94, farm laborer. 
Gould Elin, (Apalachin) r 87, resident. 
Gould George W., r 114, farmer with George Sandford. 
Gould Smith, (South Owego) r 123, farmer 160. 
Gould Stanley H., r loij, farmer, leases of Joel Tuttle, 60. 
Gower Charles, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 9, farmer. 
Gower Thomas, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 9, farmer. 
Graves Chester W., (South Owego) r 115, farmer 260. 
Graves E. Talmage, (South Owego) r 115, teacher. 
Graves Horace, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 131, farmer 100. 
Gray John H., (Apalachin) (Kinney & Gray) h Main. 
GREEN A. L. & R. D., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, groceries and provisions. 
GREEN ALLEN L., (A. L. & R. D. Green) (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, h r 35. 
Green Mary A., (Apalachin) r 87, widow Nathan, resident. 
GREEN R. DEVERE (A. L. & R. D. Green) (Gaskill's Corners) r 25. 
Green Will M., (Apalachin) r 102, farmer. 
Griffin Alfred, r ^6^, retired carpenter. 
Griffin Alvah, (Campville) r 48, farm laborer. 
Griffin Edward E. , r 56, farmer, leases of Mrs. B. W. Spencer 65. 
Griffin Emily, r 56^, v/idow Seth. 

Griffin Fanny, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, widow Alvah, resident. 
Griswold George M., r 93, school trustee and farmer 92. 
Griswold Jacob, (Apalachin) laborer, h Ferry. 
Groesbeck Betsey, r 68, widow Cornelius, farm 70. 
Groesbeck Charles H., r 67, farmer, leases of his father Isaac 50. 
Groesbeck Frank P., r 68, farmer on shares with Mrs. Betsey Groesbeck. 
Groesbeck George B., (South Owego) r 99, farmer on shares with Elin 

Gould. 
Groesbeck George S., r 61, contractor and builder. 
Groesbeck Isaac W., r 68, farmer 170. 

Groesbeck Theodore P., r 68, farmer with his father Isaac W. 
Groesbeck William, (Apalachin) r 88, farmer, leases of I. W. Groesbeck 50. 
HAGADORN FRANK E., r 95, farmer with his father William A. 
Hagadorn William A., r 95, farmer 108. 
HALL EUNICE E. Mrs., (Flemingville) r 40, prop. Flemingville Hotel, 

special attractions for summer boarders. 
HALL GEORGE W., (Flemingville) r 40 hotel. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. l6l 

Hall Peter, (Apalachin) r 87, laborer. 

Hall Temperance (Apalachin) r 87, widow John, resident. 

Hall William, (Little Meadows, Pi.) r 131, farmer 50. 

Halsted Thomas D., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25^, farmer 52. 

Hammond Frederick, r 17, farmer 50. 

Haner Addison L., r 96, carpenter and farmer 64. 

Haner Irving J., r 96, farmer with his father Levi J. 

Haner Levi J., r 96, farmer 45. 

Haradon Julius S., r 54, gardener. 

Harden Ford, (Flemingville) r 4, laborer. 

Harrington George W., (South Owego) r 123, farmer 34. 

Harrington Lyman D., r 96, farmer 41. 

Harrington Russell, r 96, farmer 41. 

Harris David, (South Owego) r 123, farmer 168. 

Harris Levi (Apalachin) r 107, resident. 

Harris Linus, (South Apalachin) r in, farmer 100. 

Hart Daniel, off r 46, farmer 37. 

Harvey Charles, (Apalachin) off r 80, farmer, works for Charles Gland 50. 

Hatfield Harry, (Apalachin) laborer, h Main. 

HAUVER FRANK M., r 64, farmer 35, and leases of James Archibald i6t. 

Hayes Henry (Apalachin) r 68, lumberman. 

Hayes Ira P., (Apalachin) r 89^, farmer 36. 

Hayner David H., (Campville) r 52, farmer 340. 

Hemstrought Charles, (Campville) r 50, farmer 20. 

Hemstrought Harvey, (Campville) r 54, farmer 24. 

Hemstrought Jacob, (Campville) r 54, brakeman and farmer 45. 

Hemstrought James, (Campville) r 54, wagon-maker and farmer 30. 

Hemstrought Jesse, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 

Hemstrought Joseph, (Campville) r 51, farmer 50. 

Hemstrought Lovejoy, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 

Hendershott Adelbert, r 40, emp. grist-mill. 

Herrick Bert, r 40, farmhand county alms-house. 

Herrick Edward P., (Flemingville) r 40, retired farmer. 

Herzig Julius, r 37, farmer, works for Mrs. Shannon 37. 

Hiawatha House, on Hiawatha Island, estate of E. G. Brown, of N. Y. city, 

Eugene F. Baton, lesee. 
Hickein John, r 69, farm laborer. 
Hickey John, (Apalachin) r 106, farmer 112. 
Hickey Patrick J., (Apalachin) r 106, farmer with his father John. 
Hickok Gideon F., (South Owego) r 122, farmer 25. 
Hicks Eber, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer 40. 
Higbee George, r 46, farmer 135. 
Higbee Orson, r 46, farmer with his father George. 
Higbee Sidney C, r 46, farmer with his father George. 
Hills George H., (Apalachin) r 113, farmer 130. 
Hills John F., (Apalachin) r 113, resident. 

Hills Marvin L., (Apalachin) r 113, farmer with his father George H. 
Hills Phoebe, (Apalachin) widow Abner. 
Hiller Levi G., (Apalachin) r no, lawyer. 
Hilton George, (Apalachin) r 89^, farmsr 50. 
Hilton William, (Apalachin) farmer 45, h Main. 
Hoagland Fred, r 56, farmer with his father William. 
Hoagland William, r 56, farmer 66. 



l62 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Hoary Edward, (Campville) r 54, trackman. 

Hodge William^ r 39, laborer. 

Holbrook Albert, r 94, lumberman. 

Holbrook Frank r 94, lumberman. 

Holbrook George, r 94, lumberman. 

Holbrook Herman, r 94, lumberman. 

Holden Edward P., r 22, farmer 100. 

Holden Fred, (Flemingville) r 3, farm laborer. 

Holden John F., r 22, farmer with his father Edward P. 

Holden Jonathan P., (Apalachin) r 102, farmer with I. W. Barton, 200. 

Holden Melvin, (Flemingville) r 3, farm laborer. 

Holden Oliver, (Flemingville) r 3, farmer 1 20. 

HoUenbeck WilUam, r 43, farmer no. 

HoUister Edwin S., (Gaskill's Corners) r 24, farmer 75. 

HoUister Eliakim H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 24, farmer 73. 

HoUister Watson P., (Gaskill's Corners) r 24, farmer 143 

Holmes Anson C, r 91, farmer with his father Elston. 

Holmes Asher, (Apalachin) retired, h Main. 

HOLMES BROS., (Apalachin) (James & Gilbert) dealers in horses, Depot. 

Holmes Elston, r 91, farmer 200. 

HOLMES GILBERT, (Apalachin) (Holmes Bros.) also potato dealer and 
farmer 200, h Main. 

HOLMES JAMES, (Apalachin) (Holmes Bros.) also commissioner high- 
ways, insurance agent and farmer 16. 

Holmes John, (Apalachin) r 70, notary public, lumberman, and farmer 20a 

Holmes John, Jr., clerk for Kinney & Gray, h William. 

Holmes Ransom S., (Apalachin) farmer, leases of John Thurber 40, h Main. 

Holmes Susan W., (Apalachin) widow Stephen, resident, bds. Main.. 

Hopkins Clark, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer. 

HOPKINS LANCY N., (Apalachin) drugs and medicines. Main, h do. 

Hopler Peter Q., (Flemingville) r 4, laborer. 

Hotchkiss Almond, (Apalachin) farmer 40, h Main. 

Hotchkiss Edward, offr 27, farmer 90. 

Howe Peter R., (Apalachin) r 102, farmer 40. 

Howe Ralph, r 40, farmer 36. 

Howell & Tracy, (Apalachin) (G. W. H. & P. T.) blacksmiths and horse- 
shoers. Main. 

Howell Charles W., (Apalachin) blacksmith. 

Howell George W., (Apalachin) (Howell & Tracy) h Main. 

Howes Joshua F., r 94, farmer. 

Hoxie Raymond J., (Apalachin) r loi, farmer 50. 

HuUett Oney, r 27, teamster. 

Hull Catharine, r 25, widow Clark, resident. 

Hull Dwight, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25^, farmer 23. 

Hull George W., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 60. 

Hull Wellington G., r 25, farmer 78. 

Hunt Bros & Co. (John, Charles, Samuel and Susan) r 43, farmer 224. 

Hunt Charles, (Hunt Bros. & Co.) r 43, farmer. 

Hunt Charles H., (Apalachin) r 70, farmer for Mrs. Mersereau. 

Hunt Ellen, r 43, widow John, resident. 

Hunt John, (Hunt Bros. & Co.) r 43, farmer. 

Hunt Harriet L., (Apalachin) r 70, widow Thomas H., resident. 

Hunt Samuel, (Hunt Bros. Co.) r 43, farmer. 



OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. i6j 



Hunt Susan, (Hunt Bros. & Co.) r 43, farm. 

Hyde William, r 20, cooper. 

IngersoU Eugene F., r 46, cooper. 

Ingersoll Guy, r 27, farmer for his father James H. 

IngersoU Irving, r 46, farmer 97. 

Ingersoll James E., (Union, Broome Co.) r 72, farmer, works on shares for 

John Wenn 112. 
Ingersoll James H., r 27, farmer 100. 
Jakway Fred D., r 66 farmer, leases of Rev. Mr. Kjng 68. 
Jaycox Alvin, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farm laborer. 
Jenks Byron J., r 93, farmer 211. 

Jennings Ransom, (Little Meadows, Pa.) farmer, leases of A. Jennings 70. 
Jewett Charles, (Apalachin) r 104, produce. 
Jewett George, (Apalachin) r 88, farmer 43. 
Jewett Maurice W., (Apalachin) r 69, retired. 
Jewett John, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 40. 
Jewett John W., (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 112. 
Johnso;i Albert, r 40, attendant County Insane Asylum. 
Johnson Andrew J., (Apalachin) r 104, contractor and builder. 
JOHNSON DANIEL, r 40, sup't County Alms House and Asylum, and ia 

Candor farm 208. 
Johnson Horace, r 43, farm laborer. 
Johnson John, r 22, farm laborer. 

Johnson Nathan A., r 28, farmer, leases of Mrs. Hauvef 20. 
Johnson Stillman, r 40, blacksmith. 
Johnson Taylor, r 21, farmer 50. 

Jones Edward, (Apalachin) r 84. carpenter, and farmer 31. 
Jones George, (Apalachin) r 87, farm laborer. 
Jones Pardon, (Apalachin) carpenter. 
Joslin Daniel F., (Flemingville) r 3, farmer 18. 
Judge Thomas L., r 1 20^, farmer 8. 
Judge Thomas, Jr., r 120, farmer 72. 
Judge William, (Little Meadows, Pa)r 132, farmer. 
Judge William H., r 120, farmer 36. 

Kaley Adam I., (Flemingville) r 4, carpenter, and works farm 53. 
Kaleyjohn, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25^, farmer 25. 
Kattell Willard, (Flemingville) r 3, farm laborer. 
Keeler James, (Union, Broome Co.) r 30, farmer 8. 
Kellum Ambrose, (Apalachin) wagon-maker. Main, h do. 
Keltz Henry, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer. 
Kent Fred, r 91, farm laborer. 
Kent Gibson, (Apalachin) r 1 13, farmer 10. 
Kent Mary A., r 91, widow Amos, resident. 
Kenyon Egbert, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r rr, farmer 40. 
Ketchum Chafes H., r 97, butcher, and farmer 42. 
Ketchum Dell, r 97, farmer 15. 

Ketchum Frederick, r 97, farmer with his father Charles H. 
Keth Jackson, (Campville) r 48, farmer 75. 

Kettell George, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer, works for John Scrofford 75. 
Kile George O., r 95, prop, feed and shingle-mill, and farmer 130. 
King Andrew, (South Owego) r 126, farmer 70. 
Kinney & Gray, (Apalachin) (J. D. K. and J. -H. G.) general merchants. Main 

cor. Depot. 



164 OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Kinney John D., (Warren Center, Pa.) (Kinney & Gray) also store at Warren 

Center, and at Burchardville, Pa., h at Warren Center, Pa. 
Kinney Thomas, (Apalachin) r 69, farm laborer. 
Kipp Clinton, r 46, farmer 51. 
Kipp Wallace, r 46, butcher, and farmer 20. 
Knapp Amos, (Apalachin) r 87 farmer. 
Knapp Charles R., (Apalachin) hardware, flour and feed, boots and shoes. 

Main, h do. 
KNAPP FRANK J., (Apalachin) postmaster and tinsmith, h Main. 
Knapp Henry, (Apalachin) r no, farmer. 
Knapp Ira, (Apalachin) 108, farmer 80. 
Knapp James, (Apalachin) r no, farmer. 
Knapp Joel. (Apalachin) r no, farmer 7. 

KNAPP WILBUR F., (Apalachin) groceries and provisions, Main, h do. 
Knapp William (Apalachin) r no, farmer. 
Knickerbocker Harvey, r 56^, laborer. 
Knight An^brose, (Apalachin) off r 80, farmer. 
Knight Irvin, (Apalachin) off r 80, farmer. 
Kyle Thomas, r 5 6|-, farmer 130. 
Ladd Isabella, r 91, widow Cyrus, resident. 
Lainhart Addison, r 35, farmer 135. 
Lainhart Simeon, (Gaskill's Corners) r 34, farmer 60. 
Lainhart Thomas, (Union, Broome Co.) r 30, carpenter* 
Laird George H., (Apalachin) insurance, h Church. 
Laird George H. Mrs., (Apalachin), dressmaker, h Church. 
LA MONTE CYRENE M., r 54, farmer n.;, and prop. Hiawatha Island 

and picnic grounds. 
La Monte David M., r 68, breeder fine horses, and farmer 75. 
La Monte Hannah, r 54, widow Marcus, resident. 

LAMPHERE GRANT U., (Apalachin) (Campbell & Lamphere) h Depot. 
Lampman Jared, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 130, resident. 
LANE A. LINDSLEY (Apalachin) r 69, farmer 80. 
Lane Don C, (Apalachin) r 83 farmer. 

Lane Edgar S., (Apalachin) r 69, farmer with his father A. Lindsley. 
Lataurette Androette, (Carapville), r 49, farmer 88. 
Leasure George, (South Owego) r 123, carpenter, and farmer 10. 
Leonard Leonard, (ApSlachin) r 108, farmer 80. 
Letts Matthew, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer. 
Lewis Edgar, (Apalachin) r 69, farmer 50. 
Lewis Hiram, (Apalachin) r 69 farmer. ' 
LEWIS ISAAC W., (Apalachin) physician and surgeon, and farmer 314, 

and in Kansas 160, and in Iowa 80, h Main. 
Lewis Maria, r 56. widow of James, carpet-weaver. 

Like George W., (Apalachin) r 106, agricultural implements, and farmer 56. 
Like William, (Apalachin) r 106, farm laborer. 

Lillie Charles T., (Apalachin) r 108, farmer on shares with John Decker. 
Lillie George M., (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 35. 
Lillie Lucina, (Apalachin) r 108, widow Jared,- resident. 
Lillie Merritt F. (Apalachin) r 108, farmer 66. 
Lillie William, (Apalachin) r to8, mason, and farmer 63. 
Lindsly Hiram, r 40, carpenter. 
Livingston Amos, r 54, gardener 7^. 

STARKEIf & WINTERS, TTIiolesale and Retail Druggists, Owego. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 65 

Livingston Christiana, widow Peter, r 67 resident. 

Livingston John, (Campville) r 71, lawyer in New York city and farmer 83. 

Livingston Marcus, (Campville) r 51, farmer 66. 

Livingston Peter, (Campville) r 48, farmer 160. 

Lory Joseph (Apalachin) r 83, bartender. 

Lory Kaziah, (Apalachin) r 83, widow David, resident. 

Lown Catherine, (South Owego) r 122, widow Jacob, resident. 

Lown William P., (South Owego) r 122, horse-dealer and farmer 47. 

Lucas Daniel T., r 99, farmer, works on shares, with Mr. Drake 80. 

Lyke Peter (Campville) r 54 farmer .120. 

Lyke Rufus F., r 91, farmer 30. 

Mabee Robert, (Apalachin) r 87, farmer. 

Mack Thomas, off r 54, track-hand. 

McGee Griffin, r 43, farm laborer. 

Mahar Michael, r 41, farmer 72. 

Maloney Jeremiah, (Apalachin) r 103, farmer 92. 

Marean Duane, (Flemingville) r 6, farmer 43. 

Marean George, (Union, Broome Co.) r 31, farmer 113. 

Mason Albert G., r. 27, farmer 60. 

Mason Albert G., Jr., r 27, farmer 12. 

Mason Samuel, r 22, locomotive engineer. 

Mason Samuel, r 22, farmer 42., 

Mason Thomas, r 22, farmer with his father Samuel 77. 

Mason William (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer. 

Maston Charles, r 120^, farmer 10. 

Maston John, r 120^, farmer 40. 

Mayhew Charles, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r no, painter. 

Mayhew George W., (Apalachin) resident, h Main. 

McCann George E., (Campville) r 54, upholsterer. 

McCann J. William, (Campville) r 54, farmer 44. 

McCaslin Alexander (Apalachin) blacksmith Main, h do. 

McClain Charles, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farm laborer. 

McClain Polly, r 20, widow Charles, farm 20. 

McClary Rexford, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 46. 

McCoy Stiles, r 56^, retired farmer. 

McDonald Cameron, r 40, painter. 

McHenry Francis B., (Apalachin) farmer, h Church. 

McHenry James (Apalachin) r J03, farmer with his mother Sally J. 

McHenry Sally J., (Apalachin) r 103, farmer 92. 

McMahon Thomas, off r 54, track-hand. 

McNeil Roswell C, (Campville) r 54, farmer. 

McNeil Sarah, (Campville) r 54, widow Roswell C, resident. 

Mead George, off r 22, farmer 175. 

Mead Holloway, (Flemingville) r 2, farmer 90. 

Mead John, (East Nichols) r 119; farmer 50. 

Mead Ransom H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 12, farm laborer. 

Mead William E., (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer, isq. 

Meade Fayette E., r 20, farmer 83. 

Meade Maria, r 20, widow Isaac, resident. 

Meads Peter, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 135, farmer. 

Mericle Jacob, r ri8| farmer 112. 

Mericle James H., r 116, farmer 52. 

STARKET & TTINTEKS, DrnKglsts, Onrego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



l66 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Meircle John, r ii6J, farmer no. 

Mericle William H., r ii6J farmer no. 

Merrick Austin B., ofTr 65, farm laborer. 

Merrick John B., r 65, farmer for L. H. Pitcher. 

Mersereau Adeline, r 69, widow George, farm 100. 

Mersereau Frank, r 68, farmer igo. 

Mersereau Grant, r 68, farmer 150. 

Millage Brinton, (Campville) r 52, farmer 64. 

Miller Augustus, (Apalachin) farm laborer, h Church. 

Miller Cornelia, (Gaskill's Corners) r ri; widow Alexander, farm 40. 

Miller Emanuel, (Apalachin) cooper. 

Miller John, (South Apalachin) r 128, farmer 50. 

Miller John, Mrs., r 56, residen. 

Miller Jonas, (Gaskill's Corners) r 11, farmer for his mother Cornelia. 

Millrea Edward, r 39, farmer for his father, Thomas. 

Millrea Thomas, r39, farmer no. 

Mills Gurdon T., (Union, Broome Co.) r 31, farmer 5. 

Moe Ezra, (South Apalachin) r 1 1 2 farmer 56. 

Moe Sherman, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 1 10, farmer 40. 

Montanyea Buffum U., (Campville) r 54 farmer 65. 

Moot Peter, r 20, farmer 60. 

Morgan Alexander, (Union. Broome Co.) r 29,farmer 50. 

Morgan William, off r 27, farmer 100. 

Morton David, (South Apalachin) off r 108, farmer 70. 

MORTON LEVI, (Apalachin) boot and shoe dealer, also custom work, 

Main, h do. 
Moss Samuel, r 99, farmer, leases of James Clark 50. 
Mott Frank C, (Apalachin) r 80, farm laborer. 
Mott Israel D., r 54, stone-mason. 
Mott Lorenzo, r 90, resident. 
Murphy Edward, (Apalachin) retired, h Church. 
Myers John, off r 54, emp. Mrs. E. A. Barton. 
Myers Joseph H., r 91, farmer 23. 
Narsh Frederick, r 32, farmer, leases of Leonard Foster. 
Narsh Marvin A., r 56^, farmer 6. 
Nash Allen, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, painter. 
Newman Maria, (Apalachin) r 84, widow Nelson S., resident. 
Newman Warren A., (Apalachin) r 84, farmer 34. 
Newman William, (Flemingville) r 16^, farmer 24. 
Nichols Betsey, (Apalachin) widow William, h Main. 
Nichols Charles, r 68, farmer 112. 
Nichols Charles H.. r 67, farmer with his father Justus. 
Nichols George, r 60. farmer r6o. 
Nichols George S., r 60 farm laborer. 
Nichols Justus, r 67, farmer 145. 
Nichols Robert, r 60, farmer with his father George. 
Nichols Washington, (Apalachin) r 102^, apiarist, and farmer 35. 
Nichols Will F., (Apalachin) hostler. 

Noteware Frederick H., (South Apalachin) r no, farmer 90. 
Noteware Wallace R., (South Apalachin) r no, apiarist, and farmer 170. 
Noteware Walter R., (Apalachin) r Sg^, farmer 35. 
Northrop Arthur T., r 23, farmjr, leases of Lainhart estate 300. 
Ogden Catherine E., (Apalachin) widow Isaac, resident, h Main. 



OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 6/ 

Ogden Frank C, (Apalachin) teacher, bds. Main. 

Olmstead Augustus, r 80, farmer 120. 

Olmstead Daniel B., (Apalachin) r 80, farmer 71. 

Olmstead Maria S., (Apalachin) r 80, widow Avery, farm 200. 

Olmstead Luman, r 40, farmer. 

Olmstead Robert, r 80, farmer with his father Augustus, 1 20. 

Olmstead Seth, r 40, grocery, and farmer 28. 

Olmstead Whiting W., r 40, farm laborer. 

O'Neill James M.,r 22, farmer 89. 

Orford Charles F., (Apalachin) carpenter, h Church. 

Orford David (Apalachin) shoemaker, h Church. 

Padgett Allen W., r 40, farm laborer. 

Pangburn Jacob, (Union, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 50. 

Pearl Charles E., r 95, farmer, leases of his father Loring C. 

Pearl Frederick J., r 95, farmer, leases of his father Loring C. 

Pearl Diana B., r 95, widow Austin, resident. 
PEARL LORING C, r 95, farmer 240. 

PEARL MYRAM W., off r 65, farmer, leases of J. F. DeGroat 123. 
Pearsall Grace L., (Apalachin) teacher, bds. William. 

PEARSALL RANSOM S., (Apalachin) justice of the peace and farmer, h 
William. 

Pease Joseph N., r 39, farmer 130. 

Pendleton Jenks, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 132, farmer. 

Pendleton Loren, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 132, farmer. 

Pendleton Monroe, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 133, farmer. 

Perkins Barney, (Apalachin) r 89 1-2, peddler, and farmer 5. 

Perkins Maggie, r 40, matron County Insane Asylum. 

Perry Charles F., (South Owego) r 122, farmer on shares with L. B. Tru- 
man, 250. 

Perry George H., (South Owego) r 122, farmer with his father Charles F. 

Pettigrove Laura J., r 40, farm 47. 

Pettigrove Sewell, r 40, miller, and farmer 6. 

Phalen Patrick, r 14, farmer, works on shares for William P. Stone, no. 

Phelps George, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farm laborer. 

Phelps Jesse, (Flemingville) r 40, farmer 11, and in Candor 100. 

Phelps Philip, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer 50. 

Phelps William, r 56, farmer 16. 

Phillips James, (Apalachin) r 90, farmer 101. 

Phinleyson Richard, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer. 

Pitcher Harvey, r 65 resident. 

Pitcher Leroy H., r 65, agricultural implements, and farmer 100. 

Potter John, (Flemingville) r 16, farmer for Frank Scott. 

Potter Wendall, farmer 78. 

Powell John H., (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer. 

Powers Apgeline, (Apalachin) r 110, widow John J., resident. 

Powers Francis J., (Apalachin) r no, farm laborer. 

Powers Frederick A., (Apalachin) r no, farm laborer. 

Post Gardner, (Apalachin) r 85, farmer 75. 

Pray Ephraim, (Apalachin) r 83, resident. 

PRITCHARD ASA, (Flemingville) r 3, farmer 37, and wood lot 14. 

Pritchard James, (Flemingville) r 4, farmer with his brother Truman 30. 

Pritchard Herbert E., (Flemingville) r 3, farmer with his father Sylvester. 

Pritchard Sylvester H., (Flemingville) r 3, farmer 126. 



l68 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Pritchard Truman, (Flemingville) r 4, farmer with his brother James 30. 

Pritchard William H., (Flemingville) r 2, farm laborer. 

Probasco Elmer, r 68, farm laborer. 

Probasco Frank M., r 67, farmer 75. 

Probasco Gurdon, r 68, farm laborer. 

Pultz Henry, r 17, farmer. 

Pultz Henry, Jr., r 17, farmer. 

Pultz Putnam, r 17, farmer 40. 

Pultz Ransom, r 17, farmer 50. 

Queeman West, (Apalachin) r 83, resident. 

Quimby Adelbert H., (Apalachin) laborer, h William. 

Quimby John W., (Apalachin) r 87, farmer. 

Randall Henry, r 26, farmer 80. 

Rauch George F., (Flemingville) r 3, farmer, leases of the Allen estate 38. 

Recorden Charles, (Flemingville) r 5, farmer 87. 

Reed James L., (Flemingville) r 4, blacksmith, and farmer in Newark 100. 

Redding John, r 120, farmer 50. 

Reynolds Albert L., r 94, farm laborer. 

Richardson Austin, r 31, farmer for his father Cephas. 

Richardson Cephas, r3i, farmer go. i^'K^^. 

Richardson Harry, r 31, farmer for his father Cephas. 

Richardson Jerome B., r 99, farmer 35. 

Rinevault Amanda, r 40, widow Alfred. 

Rising James H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 108. 

Rising Jeanette, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, widow John, farm 100. 

Rising William H., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmers?. 

Robbins Ephraim, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer. 

Robinson Benjamin, r 56, farmer 25. 

Robinson Bridget, r 22, widow Matthew, farm 118. 

Robinson Henry, (Union, Broome Co.) r 74, farmer 64. 

Robinson Howard, r 46, farmer 1 23. 

Robinson Jacob, r 27, farmer 61. 

Robinson John, r 22, farmer 118. 

Robinson John L., r 94, farmer, leases of Frank Bliss 47. 

Rockwood Charles, r 40, farm laborer. 

Rodman Benjamin, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer 60. 

Rodman Calvin, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, farmer. 

Rodman Nicholas, (Apalachin) r 68, farmer. 

Romain Benjamin, r 27, farm laborer. 

Romain Charles, (Campville) r 54, farmer 15. 

Romain George, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 

Romain Jesse, (South Owego) r 1 23, farmer on shares with D. GifFord. 

Rounds Simeon, (Apalachin) r 83, cider and shingle-mill, and farmer 25. 

Rowe Edward, r 54, gardener 17. 

Rowley James, (Apalachin) r 87, resident. 

Rulison George P., (Apalachin) mason, h Main. 

Rundle James A., r 95, farmer on shares with Mrs. G. Van' Bunschoten 76. 

Russell Daniel, r 20, farmer. 

Russell Elbridge, r 20, farmer 75. 

Russell Minor, (South Apalachin) r 108, carpenter and wagon-maker. 

Ryan Michael, (Apalachin) r 89^, farmer 56. 

Ryan James, (Apalachin) r 70, farmer 35. 

RYAN JOHN S., (Apalachin) prop, Exchange Hotel, h.do. 



OWEGO— OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 69 

Ryan Thomas, (Apalachin) laborer. 

Ryan Walter, (Union Center, Broome Co.) r 11, farmer 100. 

Sandford George, (South Owego) r 114, farmer 160. 

Sandford Lewis C., r 98, farmer with his father Oliver B. 

Sandford Oliver B., r 98, farmer 80. 

Savey Edmund G., (Apalachin) carpenter, h Main. 

Savey Seth, (Apalachin) r 87, carpenter. 

Savey William, (Apalachin) carpenter and builder, h Main. 

Sawyer George, r 56^, farmer with his father Nathan. 

Sawyer Nancy M., r 54, widow William, farm 60. 

Sawyer Nathan, r 54, farmer 50. 

Sawyer Oscar W., r 54, farmer for his mother, Mrs. Nancy M. 

Schoolcroft Peter, r 14, farmer 200. 

Schoolcroft Philip, r 14, farmer 60. 

Scott Abram, (Campville) r 69, cartman and mail-carrier. 

Scott Clinton, r 40, farmer 50. 

Scott Elizabeth, (Flemingville) r 16, widow Frederick, resident. 

Scott Emery, (Flemingville) r 16, farmer with his father Frank. 

Scott Frank, (Flemingville) r t6, farmer 92. 

Scott Phoebe, r 40, widow Alonzo, farm 10. 

Scrafford James, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25^, farmer 75. 

Scrafford John, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer 75. 

Scutt Dell, r 54, farm laborer. 

Scutt George, r 54, farm laborer. 

Scutt Isaac, r 54, farmer 4. 

Searl Edward, r 37, farmer 86. 

Searl Edward F., r 56, farmer 75. 

Searles Amos, (Flemingville) farmer 14. 

Searles Asahel, (Flemingville) r 4, farmer 50. 

Searles Esther, (Flemigville) widow Chester, farmer 15. 

Searles George, (Flemingville) r 4, Mason. 

Searles Homer, (Flemingville) r i6|, prop, steam saw-mill and farmer 10. 

Searles Lot, (Flemingville) r 16 J, farmer 13. 

Searles Luke K, (Flemingville) r 15, farmer, leases of G. Pultz 100. 

Searles Nathan P., (Flemingville) r 16^, mason and farmer 90. 

Severson George, (Campville) r 51, blacksmith. 

Shaffer Abram, r 17, farmer 50. 

Shaffer Abram, Jr., r 17, farmer. 

Shannon Elizabeth, r 37, widow Cornelius, farm 37. 

Shaw Hiram D., (South Owego) r 123, farmer 130. „ , , ^ ,. 

Shay John, (Apalachin) section foreman D. L. & W. R. R., bds. Exchange 

Shay' Wesley W., r 58, milk dealer and farmer, leases of B. Woodford 160. 
Shellman Chauncey, (Campville) r 5 1, cobbler and ferryman. 
Shepard Charles D. Rev., (Flemingville) r 40, pastor M. E. Church. 
Sherwood Charles, r 56^, farmer, works on shares for George Young 128. 
Sherwood Elsworth, (South Apalachin) r 128, farmer 150. 
Sherwood George J., (Apalachin) r 106, stock-breeder and farmer 55. 
Sherwood John, (Apalachin) r 70, farmer 25. 

Sherwood Nathaniel, (Apalachin) r 88, farmer 50. .,,.-, .. 

SHERWOOD VAN NESS (Apalachin) r 88, farmer with his father Na- 
thaniel. , . 
SHERWOOD WILLIAM H., (Apalachin) r 162, farmer 145. 



C/O OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Shirley Jonathan, r 38, farmer 13. 

Shirley John, r 36, farmer 20. 

Shirley Nathaniel, r 38, farm laborer. 

Shirley Rial, r 36, farmer 30. 

Shirley Samuel, r 37, farmer 40. 

Shopp John, (Union, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer. 

Short Frank (Apalachin) r 88, farmer with his father Uriah. 

Short Fred, (Apalachin) r 88, farmer, leases of Uriah Short, Sr., 35. 

Short G. Ransom, (Apalachin) r 89^^, farmer 15. 

Short Lorenzo, (Apalachin) r 88, farmer, leases of Uriah Short, Sr., 35. 

Short Uriah, Sr., (Apalachin) r 88, farmer 152. 

Short Uriah, (Apalachin) r 87, laborer. 

Shultz John, (South Apalachin) off r no, farmer. 

Sibley Charles V., off r 97, farmer 65. 

Sibley Elvira S., r 98, resident. 

Sibley George D., (Flemingville) r 15, farmer, works on shares for S. Mar- 
quit 70. 

Slawson George, (South Owego) r 126, fa.rmer 75. 

Slawson Schuyler M., r 99, farmer 35. 

Slawson Milton, (South Owego) r 123, farmer 160. 

SLEEPER THOMAS J., (Apalachin) (Sleeper & Whittaker) h Main. 

SLEEPER & WHITTAKER, (Apalachin) (T. J. S. & W. W.) produce and 
general merchants. Main. 

Slocum Humphrey C, r 54, farmer 25. 

Smith Albert, (Apalachin) r 86, farmer. 

Smith Aurelia, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, widow James, resident. 

Smith Charles F., r 14, farmer 200. 

Smith Elizabeth, r 54, widow George, farm 83. 

Smith Franklin E., (Apalachin) laborer, bds. Cross. 

SMITH FRED W., r 54, milk dealer and farmer 323. 

Smith George W., r 41, bridge builder. 

Smith Henry W., r 65, deputy sheriff and farmer 32. 

Smith Ira A., r 22, farmer 108. 

Smith Jerome, (Campville) r 54, farmer, leases of Dr. Allen 100. 

Smith Orville, (Campville) r 54, prop, cider-mill and farmer 100. 

Smith Phoebe, r 54, widow Stephen W., resident. 

Smith Robert C, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 140. ' 

Smith Robert E., (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farm laborer. 

Smith Royal Y., (Apalachin) r 86, farmer. 

Snell Robert, r 98, farmer 10. 

Snell Samuel B., r 98, emp. Coe's saw-mill. 

Snooks Halsey, (Apalachin) r 113, chair-seating. 

Snooks William D., (Apalachin) r 114, farm laborer. 

Snyder Nett, r 61, widow Edward D., resident. 

Southwick William, (Flemingville)'r 5, sugar orchard 76 trees, and farmer 100. 

Spencer A. Judson, farmer 180. 

Spencer Arminda, r 59, widow Brinton W., farm 65. 

Spencer George, (Campville) r 54, trackman. 

Spencer Hiram, r 96, farm laborer. 

Sprong Christopher C., r 20, farmer 75. 

Sprong George, r 20, farmer. 

Stage Clarence, (Flemingville) r 2, farmer, leases of Harry I. Clapham 125. 

Stalker Charles, farm laborer. 

Stalker George, r 31, emp. Leonard Foster. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. I /I 

STANTON ASA, r g6, surveyor and farmer 195. 

Stanton Mary, (Union, Broome Co.) r 47, widow Edward, resident. 

Stedman Lyman, (Flemingville) r 3, farmer 58. 

STEDMAN WHEELER,(Fiemingville) r 40, hay, coal, lumber, produce, and 

farmer 170. 
STEELE AARON, (Apalachin) express and station agt. D. L. & W. R. R., 

and farmer 400, h Main. 
Steele Aurelia, r 93, widow William, farm 105. 
Steele E. Jennie, r 93, teacher. 
Steele George, r 56, farmer 26. 
Steele James, (Apalachin) farmer' 42, h Main. 
Steele Maria, (Apalachin) widow Lucius, h Main. 
Steele Marinda, r 66, widow Aaron W., resident. 
Steele Philetus, r 66, farmer, leases of Aaron W. Steele 160. 
Steenburg Fred, (Apalachin) r 102^, farmer 70. 
Steenburg Isaac, (Apalachin) r 107, farmer 30. 
Steenburg Nicholas, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer. 
Stein Jacob, r 39, laborer. 

Stephens Bert. (South Apalachin) r no, farmer 100. 
Stephens Henry, (South Apalachin) r no, farmer 125. 
Stephens Samuel J., r 116, farmer 52. 
Stevens Charles, r 56, farm laborer. 
>Stockwell Frank, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farm laborer. 
Stone Charles M., r 116, farmer 28. 

Stratton James H., r 20, farmer, leases of Hiram Johnson 40. 
Stratton John, (Union, Broome Co.) farmer. 
Stratton Richard, r 20, wagon-maker, and farmer 35. 
Strong Beri, (Flemingville) r 4, farm laborer. 
Strong Charles, r 39, farmer, leases of Mirs. Caroline Allen 90. 
Strong Clayton B., r 66, farmer. 

Strong Susan A:, r 66, widow Levi, leases of Dr. Phelps 100. 
Sturtevant Harrison C, r- 20, farm laborer. 
Stilson Eugene, (Apalachin) r 69, farm laborer. 
Stilson Sarah E., (Apalachin) r 69, widow Hiram, farm 6. 
Stinard Joseph, r 63, miller. 
Stinard R. Charles, r 63 farmer. 

Surdam P. Smith, (Union, Broome Co.) r 31, farmer 127. 
Swartwood Joseph A., (Apalachin) gardener, h Cross. 
Swart J. Walter, (Campville) r 51, farmer 42. 
TALCOTT CHARLES, r 40, apiarist 35 swarms, and farmer 75. 
Talcott Frederick, r 40, farmer. 
Talcott Eunice B., r 40, widow Joel, resident. 

Talcott George B., r 40, apiarist 70 swarms, 90 head sheep, and farmer 207. 
Talcott William H., r 20, farmer 75. 

f ALLMADGE EZRA W., r 99, fruit grower, 600 apple trees, and farmer 116. 
Jaylor Frank, r 95, resident. 

Teater Philip, (Union, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 80. 
Terbush Clark, (South Owego) off r 90, farmer 188. 
Terbush Hiram, (Apalachin) r 106, farmer 46. 
Thomas Jane E. Mrs., r 95, resident. 
Thomas William, off r 56 1-2,, farmer 44. 
Thompson John A., (Apalachin) r 69, farm laborer. 
Thompson William, (Apalachin) shoemaker. Main, h Wilham. 



172 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Thornton Abram, 131, emp. Foster's saw-mill. 

Thornton Thomas, r 27, basket and shoemaker. 

Throop John G., (Apalachin) r 106, farmer 25. 

Tilbury Charles F., (Campville) r 71, farmer 50. 

Tilbury Frederick, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 100. 

Tilbury Herman M., (Campville) r 71, potato dealer, and farmer 40. 

Tilbury Isaac, r 53, farmer 96. 

Tilbury James, (Campville) r 71, farmer 100. 

Tobey James D., (Apalachin) r 83, saw-mill, and farmer 30. 

Tobey Ruel L., (Apalachin) r 83, farm laborer. 

Toburn Richard, (Campville) r 54, trackman. 

Tousley Silas G.j r 54, farmer 50. 

Towsand Frederick, off r 120, farmer 91. 

Towsand Joel, r 120, farmer 100. 

Towsand John, r 120 1-2, farmer no. 

Towser John, r 41, farm laborer. 

TRACY BENJAMIN F., (Apalachin) (B. F. Tracv & Son) r 69. 

TRACY B. F. & SON, (Apalachin) (Frank B.) r 69, props. Marshland stock 
farms. 

TRACY FRANK B., (Apalachin) (B. F. Tracy & Son) r 69. 

Tracy Frank Y., (Apalachin) (Howell & Tracy) h Cross. 

Tracy Harrison (Apalachin) off r no, farmer no. 

Tracy Harvey J., (Apalachin) r 83, stock raising and farmer 105. 

Tracy Pardon, (Apalachin) (Howell & Tracy) h Church. 

Travis Charles J., r 68, farmer with his father James. 

Travis James, r 68, farmer 50. 

Travis Samuel, (Apalachin) ofFr 102, farmer 50. 

Travis WilUam, (Apalachin) r 69, hostler. 
"TTriiman Aaron B., (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer 203. 

Truman Charles E., (Flemingville) r 40, postmaster, justice of the peace 
and farmer 70. 

Truman Charles F., (Flemingville) r 40, farmer 150. 

Truman Elias, r 120 1-2, farmer 160. 

Truman Elias W., (Apalachin) r 87, farmer. 
J]rum^n Lyman B., (South Owego) r 123, postmaster and farmer 250. 

Trusdell Morris, (Campville) r 71, farmer, leases of Michael Livingston 80. 

Tucker Nelson, (Apalachin) off r 113; resident. 

TuUock James A., (Flemingville) r 4, farmer 40. 

Tuttle Jason, (Carapyille) r 51, laborer. 

Tyrrell Henry I., r 116, farmer 33. 

Tyrrell Walter D., farmer, leases of W. Fox estate 100. 

Van Brunschoten George W., (Apalachin) r no, farmer 6. 

Van Dermark, r 69, farm laborer. 

Van Gorder Ezra, (Apalachin) r 85, farmer. 

Van Gorder James, (.Apalachin) off r 1 10, farmer. 

Van Gorder Jonathan, r 93, retired. 

Vanorder Frederick, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farm laborer. 

Van Riper Fred, (Apalachin) r 102, farmer. 

Van Riper Morris, (Apalachin) r 90, farmer 27. 

Verguson Edward, (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer for F. W. Smith 240. 

Verry Russell, (Little Meadows, Pa.) r 132, farmer. 

Viele John N., off r 96, farmer 25. 

Vincent Dexter C, r 46, cooper. 



OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 1 73 

Vosburgh Stephen H., r 40, saw-fil6r. 

Wade John, (Flemingville) r 5, farm laborer. 

Wade Ozias D., (Flemingville) r 5, farmer 41, and in Newark 65. 

Wait Charles B., (East Nichols) off r 119, farmer 90. 

Wait Frederick C, (East Nichols) r 120, farmer 200. 

Wait Henry, (East Nichols) r 119, farmer ti2. 

Wait Horace, (East Nichols) off r 119, farmer with his father Charles. 

Wait John, r 54, farmer 50. 

Wait John H., (East Nichols) r T19, farmer with his father William 225. 

Wait William, (East Nichols) r 119, farmer 225. 

Wait William H., r 54, farmer with his father John 50. 

Walker Abram, (Campville) r 54, laborer. 

Walker Frank, r 27, carpenter. 

Walker George D., (Union, Broome Co.) r 30, farmer 128. 

Walker Judson R., r 59, farmer, with his father Rial. 

Walker Rial, r 59, farmer 36. 

WALTER ARTEMAS, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer 250. 

Walter Franklin A., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, carpenter. 

Walter Lester, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer for his father Artemas. 

Walter Lyman, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farm laborer. 

Walters Herman, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, student. 

Walters Margaret, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, widow William, farm 300. . 

Walters Orin, (Gaskill's Corners) r 45, farmer, leases of Mrs. M. Walters 300. 

Ward Charles, off r 113, farmer, leases of Ira Edwards. 

Ward Daniel, off r 46, farmer with his father Richard 55. 

Ward Richard, off r 46, farmer with his son Daniel 55. 

Warrick Peter, r 3 2, retired farmer. 

Warrick Samuel, (Union, Broome Co.) off r 47, farmer. 

Welch Charles, r 43, farmer, works on shares for the Misses. HoUenback 275. 

Welch James, (Gaskill's Corners) r 11, farmer 80. 

Welch Herbert, r 37, farmer 40. 

Wells Maria K., r 32, resident. 

Wemple Isaac S., 'Union, Broome Co.) r 30, farmer 84. 

Wenn John, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 100. 

Wheeler Charles, (Apalachin) r 86, farmer. 

Wheeler Fred S., (Campville) r 54, clerk. 

Wheeler John, (Campville) r 54, groceries and provisions. 

White Andrew, (Apalachin) r loi 1-2, farmer no. 

Whitmarsh Andrew, on Hiawatha Island, works on shares for C. M. La- 
Monte 100. 

Whitney David H., (Campville) r 54, farmer 23. 

Whitney Nathan S., (Campville) r 54, farmer. 

WHITTAKER WELLINGTON,(Apalachin) (Sleeper & Whittaker) h Main 

WHITTEMORE ALVIN, (Union, Broome Co.) r 28, farmer 85. 

Whittemore Charles, r 27, farmer 80. 

Whittemore Egbert, (Union, Broome Co.) r 29, farmer 17. 

Whittemore Fred, (Union, Broome Co.) r 46, farmer, works on shares for 
Charles J. Stanton 162. 

Whittemore George, (Union, Broome Co.) r 30, farmer 120. 

Whittemore John, r 27, carpenter and farmer 40. 

Whittemore Marcus, (Campville) r 48, laborer. 

Whittemore Virgil, r 26, farmer 200. 

Whittemore William, (Gaskill's Corners) r 43, farmer 140. 



174 OWEGO — OUTSIDE CORPORATION. 

Wicks Lucius M., r 54, ice-dealer. 

Wilcox Elizabeth Mrs., (Apalachin) resident, li Main. 

Williams Emeline, r 117, widow James H., resident. 

Williams George E., r 99, farmer no 

Williams Isaac F., r 95, farmer 41. 

Williams Jacob, r 99, retired. 

Williams John E., (Apalachin) harness-maker, Main, h Church. 

'Williams Lucy, r 95, widow Reuben, resident. 

WilUams Stephen L., r 95, farmer, and leases of Mrs. Lucy Williams 100, 

WILLIAMS V.'RIGHT B., r 115, fruit-grower and farmer 100. 

Williamson Ezra M., r 22, farmer 80. 

Williamson George D., agt. for the "Sprague" farm wagon, and farmer, leases 

of Mrs. M. McLean 30. 
Williamson Isaac, r 17, farmer. 
Wilsey Otis, (South Owego) r 113, farmer 150. 
Winans Ernest, r 117, farmer with his father Orlando. 
Winans Orlando, r 117, farmer no. 
Winchell John J., (Flemingville) r 4, farmer 71. 
Winne Ajelica, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, widow Walter V., resident. 
Winne Eugene, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer with his brother James 183. 
Winne Jacob, r 14, farmer 30. 

Winne James, (Gaskill's Corners) r 35, farmer with his brother Eugene 183. 
Winship Frank, (Flemingville) r 4, farm laborer. 
Witter Lyman, r 94, farmer 70. 
Witter William, off r 96, shingle-raaker and farmer. 
Wolcott Aaron, (South Owego) r 128, farmer 50. 
Wood Alva, (Apalachin) off r 108, farmer 37. 
Wood Andrew J., off r 96, farmer 41. 

Wood Catherine E., (Apalachin) r 114, widow Luman B., farmer 75. 
Wood Charles E., (Flemingville) r 30, dealer in agricultural implements and 

well-driver. 
Wood Charles H., r 60, cabinet-maker. 
Wood Clarence, r 40, farmer. 
Wood C. Leonard, r 60, emp. King & Co. 

WOOD EDWARD B., (Apalachin) r 114, farmer with his mother Catherine. 
Wood Frank T., (Gaskill's Corners) r 25, farmer 75. 
Wood J. Henry, off r 96, farm laborer. 
Wood Nelson, (Flemingville) r 5, farm laberer. 
Wood Royal, (Apalachin) r 104, farm laborer. 
Wood Royal P., r 40, farmer 85. 

Wood Samuel H., off r 96. farmer with his father Andrew J. 
Worrick Charles T., r loi^, farmer 70, and leases of Anna M. Boyce iic 
Worrick Freeman, (Apalachin) r loi^, farmer. 
Worrick Nathaniel S., r 32, farmer 130. 
Woughter Andrew C, (Union, Broom Co.) r 73, farmer 113. 
Woughter Avery, (Union, Broome Co.) r 71, farmer 70. 
Woughter Chester, (Union, Broome Co.) r 73, farmer 50. 
Woughter Cornelius, (Union, Broome Co.) r 72, farmer 85. 
Woughter Vol, r 54, farmer 57J. 

Wright Adam, r 16, farmer, works on shares for Joseph Young 100. 
Wright Elson, r 20, farm laborer. 

Yarrington Sylvia, (Apalachin) widow Washington, bds. Main. 
ST.ARKEV tc WINTERS, Wholesale and Retail Druggists, Owego^ 



TOWN OF RICHFORI?. 1 75 



Yates Daniel, (Campville) r 54, fanner 36. 
Yates Frank, (Apalachin) r 85, farmer. 
Yates George L., r 91, farmer with his father John. 
Yates John, r 91, farmer 70. 
Yates John S., (Apalachin) r 70, farmer 85. 
Yates Mary A., r 91, resident. 
• Yearsley Aaron, (Apalachin) r 69, horseman. 
Yearsley William, (Apalachin) emp. Marshland stock farm, h Main. 
York Abram, (Apalachin) r 104, farm laborer. 
Young Charles, r 20, farmer 50; 
Young George, r 54, farmer 265. 
Young Joseph, r 21, farmer 200. 



RICHFORD. 

{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second^ 

(Postofifice address is Richford, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Abbey Edward B., r 25, carpenter, and farmer 52. 

Allen Carlton E., (Caroline. Torap. Co.) r 26, farmer with H. C. Allen 134.. 

Allen Elmer, r 42, carpenter. 

Allen George W., farmer 35, h Main. 

Allen Henry C, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 26, farmer 77, and with C. E. A.. 

134- 
Allen James, physician and surgeon, h Main. 
ALLEN J. W., (Finch & Allen) r 18, prop, saw-mill, lumber dealer.and farmer 

33°- 
Allen Sidney B., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 23, farmer 102. 
Allen William B., commercial traveler, h Main. 
Avery Ebeneazer, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 26, farmer 12. 
Ayers Elias, r 49, farmer no. 
AYERS FREDERICK A., r 37, farmer 1 10. 
AYERS JAMES W., shoemaker, h Mill. 
Ayers Jeptha L., r 46, laborer. 
Ayers Job, r 28, farmer 230. 

Ayers John L., r 46, farmer, leases of W. F. Wright, of Berkshire, 92. 
Ayers Marietta, r 41, widow of Albert, farm 11^ 
Ayers Rudolph, r 27, farmer 219. 
AYERS WAYLAND B., r 28, farmer. 

Barden Charles F., off r 26, farmer, leases of W. S. Goodrich id-j. 
Barden Edmund, r 18, carpenter. 
Barden Ezra S., farmer 30, h Main. 
Barden Frank, r 18, farmer 117. 
Barnes Arba P., harness-maker, h Front. 

Birnes George S , (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer, leases of C. A. Fel- 
lows 100. 

STdiRKEY Ic WINXEHS, promptly fill Mall and Tcleplione Orders, 



176^ TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



BARNES GRANT W., manuf. and dealer in harnesses, saddles, whips, nets, 

robes, and dusters, also county superintendent of poor, h Aurora. 
Barney George E., r 18, farmer 30. 
Beam Charles, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 23, farmer 34. 
Belden Edgar F., clerk for W. C. Smith & Co., and farmer with William F. 

Belden 156. 
Belden Frederick C, r 39, farmer 160. 
Belden George R., r 39, farmer. 
BELDEN WILLIAM F., r 39, farmer 144. 
Bell Augustus E., shoemaker. Main. 
Benjamin Frank E., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 23, farmer, leases of Sarah A. 

Benjamin, of McGrawville, 60. 
Benjamin Luther U., (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 8, laborer, h and lot. 
Berry Benjamin, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 12. 
Blakeman Allen, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14, farmer 16 1. 
Blakeman Asahel, r 11, farmer 155. 
Blakeman William, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14. 
BUss Bert, laborer. 

Bliss Franklin, prop, grist-mill, and farmer 30, opp. depot. 
Boice William J., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) farmer 30. 
Boyce Charles, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, laborer, h and lot. 
Brace Francis, resident, h Aurora, served in Co. D, 76th N. Y. Vols. 
BRIGHAM BOSTWICK, r 27, farmer 130. 
Brink Theodore, r 45 1-2, farmer. 
Brookins George W., r 33, farmer 25. 
Brumage John, (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) r 44, farmer 4. 
Brusie Granville, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) off r 14, farmer, leases of Allen 

Blakeman. 
BUNCE HARVEY A., r 49, farmer with. William A., 65. 
Bunce William A., r 49, farmer with Harvey A., 65. 
Chaffee Varnum, r 37 cor. 50, farmer 72. 
Chambers Samuel, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, farmer 90. 
Chapman Amos E., r 35, farmer. 

Clark BLrdswell, (Berkshire) r 47, farmer, leases of Abram Clark, of Owego, t8o 
Clark Charles A., postmaster, and farmer 188 1-2. 
Clark Erastus W., r 19, farmer 8. 
Clark George, off r 18, laborer. 
Clark John D., laborer, h Aurora. 
Cleveland Ezekiel, ofif r 10, farmer 140. 
Cleveland Justus, r 42, farmer no. 
Colby Lewis I., r 41, farmer 144. 
Cole John, (Berkshire) r 48, farmer 28. 
Coney William, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14, laborer. 
Congdbn Peter, r 39, farmer 122. 
CONRAD CHARLES H., r37, farmer 28. 

Cooper Ephraim A., (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, prop, saw-mill and farm 12. 
Cortright Charles, r 42, laborer. 
Cortright James, sawyer, h Main. 
Cox Sarah, r 31 1-2. 

Grain Marvin, (Harford Mills) r 9, laborer. 
Crandall Ira, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 23, farmer 15. 
Culver John L., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r ri, farmer, leases of A. Boyce 

of Harford 47. 



T|OWN OF RICHFORD. ' 177 

■CURTIS CHARLES F., r 39, justice of the peace, breeder and dealer in 
horses, dairy 16 cows and farmer 200. 

Curtis Loren H., r 39, resident. 

Dalrymple Lydo H., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) farmer. 

Dalrymple Samuel A. (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 8, farmer 100. 

Daniels H. & S. H., r 10 cor. 19, dairy 15 cows and farmers 180. 

Daniels Heman, (H. & S. H.) r 10 cor. 19. 

Daniels Samuel H., (H. & S. H.,) r 10 cor. 19, also civil engineer and sur- 
veyor. , 

Darlin Preston, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, farmer 4. 

Davis Charles P., (Harford Mills) r 10, farmer, leases of Alfred Davis of 
Harford, 80. 

Davis j0iffl!Jfc>t 3.3,, teaclxir_and farmer 188. 

Deck^gt "Peter N., (Harford Miffs, "Cort.iCo.iM- iA.,,hxmei 102 



3.;3 ■■^-'-Ti:m3JI,-^S^ 



FINCH CHARLES R., farmer, and breeder of Clydesdale horses 

FINCH CLARENCE W., (H. S. & C. W.) (W. C. Smith & Co.) h Main. 

Finch Elam, emp. H. S. & C. W. Finch. 

FINCH H. S. & C. W., (Hotchkiss S. and Clarence W.) props, steam saw- 
mill, and manufs. of lath, flooring, ceiling, etc., also woven wire mat- 
tress frames, corn knife, grass hook, and hay-knife handles, sythe boxes, 
extension table slides, bed slats, etc. 

FINCH HOTCHKISS S., manuf. and dealer in soft and hard wood lumber, 
lath, posts and shingles, farmer 1,200, 12 houses and 20 vacant lots in 
Auburn. Fish property. West ave. cor. King st, and with J. W. Allen, 
block cor. State, Perry and Mill sts., Rochester. 

Finch Philander W., justice of the peace, and dealer in live stock and pro- 
duce, h Aurora. 

Foote|p|P5ge M., farmer 50 in Candor, h Main, 

Foster Breivster, r 35, farmer 60. 

Foster Mfles, r 42, farmer, leases of R. Holmes, of Newark, 74. 



^..^^T.^- 



:^undis John, Jr., off r 18, farmer, leases of John WS'Ss 54. 
,Gee^®^^;fermer 25, h Main. — 
Gee Moses L., farmer 107,'h Aurora. 
Gee Noah, r 1 7, farmer 25. 
Geer Calphernia, widow Henry, resident, h Main. 
Geer George M., r 31 1-2, supervisor, and farmer 200. 
Geer lehabod H., r 31 1-2, resident. 
Genung Edward, r 34, farmer, leases 80. 

Genung Orrin L., r 45 1-2, wagon-maker and carpenter, also farmer 6. 
Gilbert Milo, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 51, farmer 58. 



12 



178 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Gilbert William, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 36, laborer. 
Glezen Charles A., (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 35, farmer 246. 
GOODRICH WILLIAM S., dealer in cattle, sheep, calves and swine, and 

farmer 167, h Main. 
Gostley Peter, off r 17, farmer 30. 

GRANGER EDMUND R., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) (Francis & Son) r 10. 
GRANGER FRANCIS & SON (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) (Edmund R.) 

r 10, prop, of saw and grist mill, and manuf. of yard-sticks, bee-hives, 

honey sections, shipping crates, potato crates, mouldings, brackets and 

novelty goods. 
Gray Dennis, live stock and farm produce, also farmer 44, h Main. 
Greaves Susan D., widow George, resident. 

Griswold Lavina, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14, widow William, farm 180. 
Griswold William, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14, laborer. 
HALE SAMUEL B., r 37, farmer 60., served in Co. B 104th N. Y. Vols. 
Hall Leonard, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, laborer. 
Hamilton Alexander, r 33, farmer 20. 

Hamilton Luther B., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 11, farmer 138. 
Haynes Charles A., r 17, farmer. 
Haynes Sylvester C, r 17, farmer 100. 

Heath Ambrose B., r 40, farmer 37 1-2, leases of Nathaniel 28 1-2. 
HEATH NATHANIEL, r 40, carpenter, and farmer 28 1-2, served in Co. 

H 146th N. Y, Vols. 
Heath Seymour, r 40, resident. 

Hefron Leroy, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, portable saw-mill. 
Herrick Amos, r 37, farmer 80. 
Hill Charles H., r 26, laborer. 
Hill Ignatius, r 30, resident. 
Hill Wilson I., r 30, farmer 93. 
Hoaglin Edward, r 43, farmer. 
HOAGLIN MARVIN A., r 43, dealer in organs and sewing machines, and 

farmer 42. 
Holcomb Adelbert, r 35, farmer 50. 
Holcomb Timothy M., r 35, farmer. 
Hopkins Daniel H., house, sign and carriage painting and paper-hanging, 

kalsomining, etc., h Main. 
Horton Bros., (Orlando and Stephen L ) r 46, farmers 140. 
Horton Horace, section hand. 

HOUK GEORGE, r 21, farmer 40, and leases of Lydia Houk 130. 
Houk Lydia, r 21, widow Benjamin, farm 100. 
HOWLAND HARRISON, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 36, carpenter, 

and farmer 174. 
Howland Wilber, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.)r 48, farmer 68. 
HUBBARD LINDERMAN M., r 51, farmer 11 1-2. 
Hulsander George, emp. H. S. & C. W. Finch, h Mill. 
Hulslander Jacob, r 17, farmer, leases of M. L. Gee 1=7. 
Hunt Daniel E., r 43, miller, and farmer 37. 
Hutchinson Alzina, widow John, resident, h Railroad. 
Hutchinson Edward, r 3T 1-2, farmer, leases of George M. Geer 200. 
Hutchinson Frank, resident, h Aurora. 
Hutchinson Wesley J., carpenter, h Railroad. 
Japhet George, r 35, laborer. 
STARKET & WINTERS, Wbolesale and Retail Drogglats, Owego, 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. 1 79 

Jayne Amzi L., r 3o,farmer 115. 
Jayne Charles F., r 30, farmer. 
Jayne Samuel A., r 30, farmer 150. 
Jennings George, r 40, laborer. 

Jennings Henry A., r 35, breeder and dealer in horses, and farmer 170. 
Jennings William H., off r 41, farmer 175. 
Jewett Caroline, r 45, widow Richard, farm 96. 
Jewett Charles F., (Berkshire) r 95, dairy 14 cows, farmer 125. 
Jewett Lyman, r 45, farmer, leases of James Smith estate of Caroline 147.. 
Jewett Oliver, r 43, retired farmer. 
Jewett Orrin, r 45, farmer, works for Caroline Jewett 96. 
Johnson James B., r 40, farmer 100. 

J-ohnson William, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 36, farmer, leases of Gama- 
liel H. Tubbs 115. 
Johnson William R., r 40, strawberry culturist, and farmer 50. 

Jones Lucius A., farmer 16, h Main. 
Jordan Franklin, (Berkshire) r 36, farmer. 

Kent Isman, off r 18, farmer 10. 

Keyes Thomas S., r 46, farmer 58. 

King William W., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, carpenter, and farmer 30. 

Krum Charles G., r 41 cor. 42, dairy 15 cows, farmer 240. 

Lacey Charles, laborer, h Main. 

Lacey George, r 42, laborer. 

Lacey Louis V., telegraph operator. 

Lacey Philip, laborer, h Main. 

Lacey Rufus, laborer, h Railroad. 

Lacy James, r 28 cor. 29, farmer 160. 

Leach Daniel, r 44, farmer 45. 

Leebody Henry, laborer, h Aurora. 

Leebody Robert, r 40, laborer. 

Leonard John B., 35, millwright, and farmer 25. 

Lewis William, r 18, laborer. 

Livermore Walton, sawyer, h Aurora. 

Locke Benjamin, (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, laborer. 

Locke Henry D., (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) farmer, leases of Mrs. S. A. 
White 250. 

Marsh Aaron, r 46, dairy 12 cows, farmer 120. 

Marsh Burr, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 36, farmer 134. 

Marsh Washington, r 35, farmer 70, served in Co. E., 76th N. Y. Vols., and 
Co. F., ist Ver. Cavalry. 

Marshall Charles, laborer. 

Marshall Charles, r 31, blacksmith. 

Marshall William, laborer, h Main. 

Marshall Wilson, off r 18, farmer 13. 

Matson Frank,(Harford, Cort.'Co.) r 7, farmer, works for Orrin Matson 90. 

Matson Lucy A., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 24, widow Isaac, farm 17, and 
with Seth Matson 200. 

Matson Ormal, (Harford, Cort. Co.)r 7, laborer. 

Matson Orrin, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 7, farmer 90. 

Matson Seth, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 24, farmer with Lucy A. 200. 

Mayo William W., r 46, farmer. 

Mclntyre John, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 19^ farmer.. 

STARKE'K' 4: 'WIirTERSj Drasglsts, Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. ■ - 



l8o TOWN OF RICHFORD. 



Meacham George W., r 37, farmer. 

MEACHAM JAMES VV., r 37, brick and plaster mason. 

MEACHAM ORRIN N., r 37, carpenter, also mason, and farmer 32. 

Meloy Charles T., r 33, farmer 50. 

Meloy Frank P., r 33, lumberman, breeder and dealer in horses, and far- 
mer 96^. 

MILLER WILLIAM F., dealer in groceries and provision, and farm pro- 
duce, Read & Co.'s fertilizers and champion mowers and reapers, and 
Perry spring tooth harrow. Main. 

Mills George F., r 33, laborer. 

Moore Charles H., justice of the peace and produce dealer, h Main, served 
jn Co. G., 137, N. Y. Vols. 

Moore Dana A., r 46, farmer 28. 

Moore Emily A., r 46, widow Elijah, farm 112. 

Moore Enoch N>, r 33, laborer. 

Moore Helen A., r 46, farm with Diadama Walker 71. 

Moreland George D., general blacksmith, served in Co. G, 109th N. Y. Vols., 
h Main. 

Morenus Chancey, r 33, farmer too. 
JVTorenus William H., r 33, farmer. 

Morton Agnes, r 18, widow Spencer, resident. 

Morton Edward, r 18, laborer. 

Morton John, ofFr 10, farmer. 

Morton Lewis, r 10, sawyer and farmer 20. 

Morton William, r 10, mason, carpenter and farmer 18; 

Myers Fred, (Harford Mills,. Cort. Co.) r 11, lumberman and farmer. 

Myres John S., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 11, farmer 53, served in Co. E, 
1 5 7th N. Y. Vols. 

JNash David, laborer, h Mill. 

JNefif Alexander, r 34, laborer, served in 109th Artillery, N. Y. Vols. 

Neif Harrison, r 15, farmer 67. 

NefF Jerome, r 34, farmer 60. 

Newton Delay, r 31^, farmer 38. 

Nigus Judson, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 7, stone-mason. 

Nixon Albert, r 31, laborer. 

Norton Cyrus, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 24, laborer. 

O'Brien Dennis, farmer 50, h Main. 

O'Brien James, r 26, farmer 130. 

Ostrander Lorenzo, r 35, farmer 127. 

Owens Levi, r 31 cor. 18, blacksmith, and farmer 20. 

Owens Phineas, laborer. 

Owens William, r 31, well-drilling. 

Packard George, r 18, farmer 26. 

Packard John, r 18, farmer 30. 

Palmerton Fred H., r 49, laborer. 

Palmerton George, r 37, farmer 40. 

Parker William W., (Harford Mills) r 9, dairy 28 cows, farm 260. 

Patch Edward H., (Berkshire) r 45 J, farmer, works for Mrs. E. L. Patch, of 
Berkshire 222. 

Perry Ebenezer, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 5, farmer 20. 

PERRY EDWIN A., r 43, steam-threshing and grist-mill, wagon maker, 
and farmer 1 10. 

Perry Frank, r 44, music teacher, and farmer 25. 



TOWN OF RICHFORD. iSf 



Perry Lewis, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 5, laborer. 

Perry Richard H., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 51, resident. 

Personius John J., (Slaterville, Tomp. Co.) r 3, farmer 8. 

Phelan Patrick, section boss. 

Phillips C. Martin, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 48, farmer. 

Phillips Franklin, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 48, farmer 66. 

Phillips W. Ardell, (Berkshire) r 47, leases of C. Arnold of Geneva 90. 

Pierce Benjamin, (Harford, Cort Co.) r 6, dealer in charcoal, and farmer 60. 

Pierce George H., (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 6, resident. 

Pierce John, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 21, laborer. 

PIERCE WALLACE C, dealer in furniture and household goods, also un- 
dertaker and dealer in breech-loading shotguns and rifles, agent for 
the Ithaca breech-loading shotguns. 

PoUey Amos, r 31, farmer 275. 

PoUey Lemuel, r 31, farmer 68. 

PoUey Solomon, r 32, farmer 6z. 

Quail Fred, (Carohne, Tomp. Co.) r 4, laborer. 

Rawley Daniel T., retired farmer. 

Rawley George W., dentist and jeweler, Main. 

Rawley Hiram B., general store. 

Rice William, laborer, h Railroad. 

RICH CHAUNCEY L., retired treasurer Southern Central R. R. 

Rich Henry L., book-keeper, bds Main. 

Rich Lucian D. station and express agent. 

RICHFORD HOTEL, H. W. Thelemao, prop. 

Root Reuben, (Berkshire) r 46, farmer 43. 

Robinson. Asher, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) farmer, leases of M. Robinson 90. 

ROBINSON CALVIN J., att'y and counselor at law, notary public, and 
pension agent, h Main. 

Robinson Fred J., telegraph operator, bds. Main. 

Robinson Hiland, mechanic, h Main. 

Robinson Isaac N., r 21, carpenter, and wagon repairer, also farmer 60. 

Robinson James, telegrapTi operator, h Main. 

Robinson Martin, r 42, farmer 290. 

Rockefeller Egbert, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 11, farmer 135. 

Rockefeller Henry, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co!) off r 14, farmer 30. 

Rockefeller Jacob, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 22. 

Rockefeller John, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 22, farmer 82. 

Rockefeller Simeon W., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 12, farmer 100. 

Rogers Mary Powell, resident, h Aurora. 

Royce Dewitt, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 5, farmer with Herman 63. 

Royce Herman, (Harford, Cort. Co.) farmer with Dewitt 63. 

Rusher William, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 8, farmer, leases of Jane Sheldon, of 
Newark, 144. 

Satterly Charles, r 17, farmer 5. 

Satterly Ira, r 33, farmer 15. 

Satterly Lyman J., r 17, farmer 18. 

Satterly Willard, r 17, lumberman, and farmer 62. 

Satterly William B., (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 36, farmer 41. 

Sears Dioclesian, r 16, retired farmer. 

Sears James M., r 16, stock breeder ahd dealer, and farmer 237. 

Sexton Ransom, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 18, dairy 17 cows, farmer 160. 

Sherwood Isaac, (Berkshire) r 47, dairy 15 cows, farmer 150. 



382 TOWN OF RICHFORD. 

Slater George, amp. H. S. & C. W. Finch, h Aurora. 

Slater Joseph, r i6, farmer 22. 

Slater Timothy, off r 18, farmer 15. 

Smith Eliza, r 45, widow James, farm 147. 

Smith Jerome, r ti, laborer. 

Smith Julius C, millwright, and wagon-maker, h Aurora. 

Smith Nicholas, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 14, farmer 80. 

SMITH RALPH P., r 35, breeder and dealer in Clay and Hambletonian 
horses, dairy 30 cows, farmer 200. 

Smith W. C. & Co., (H. S. and C. W. Finch) general store. 

Smith William R., r 18, laborer. 

STANLEY ANSON, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.) r 51, farmer 56. 

Steele Andrew, (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 4, farmer 160. 

Stephens Hector, teamster. 

Stewart Lewis, r 31, laborer. 

SWIFT CHARLES H., dealer in hardware, tinware, stoves and ranges, hang- 
ing lamps, Rogers Bros.' plated-ware, cutlery, alarm clocks, agate ware, 
chums and churn-powers, bird cages, horse-blankets, syrup cans, sap- 
buckets, tin-roofing, eave-troughs, tobacco and cigars, etc., Main, h Main. 

Talbot Selah, r 11, farmer 32. 

Talcott Horace B., r 17, farmer 25. 

Talcott Jessie F„ r 17, farmer 25. 

Talcott Willard, r 17, farmer 27. 

Tarbox Benjamin, r 10, farmer 40. 

Theleman Frank, porter Richford Hotel. 

THELEMAN HIRAM W., prop. Richford Hotel, and livery, also dealer in 
wagons, mowing-machines, horse-rakes, etc., and farmer 50. 

Thomas Theodore F., r 42, farmer 6. 

THOMPSON ALEXANDER, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 11, farmer 85^. 

Thompson Benjamin, r 44, cooper, and farmer 2J. 

Thompson Charles, r 16, farmer 40. 

Thompson Charles H., r 44, farmer. 

Thompson William H., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 11, farmer 22, leases of 
Mrs. E. N. VanDyke 80. 

Tobey Josiah G., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) r 26, prop, saw-mill, and farmer 118. 

Tryon Daniel, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r ii, farmer 64. 

Tubbs Elbert, r 49, laborer. 

Tubbs Freedom U., r. 34, widow Robert, farmer 35. 

TUBES GAMALIEL C, (Center Lisle, Broome Co.l r 36, prop, steam 
saw-mill, dealer in lumber and farmer 300. 

TUBBS GAMALIEL H„ (Whitney's Point, Broome Co.) farmer 100 and 
at Whitney's Point steam saw-mill, and mnfr. and dealer in lumber, 
doors, blinds, sash, mouldings and butter packages. 

Turk George H., r 32, farmer, leases of Amos Polley. 

Tyler Edward, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, clergyman (Chris.) and 
farmer 10. 

Tyler Laura, widow Ezra, resident, h Main. 

Vandemark Samuel, r 17, farmer 72 1-2. 

Van Gorder Charles H., r 49, farmer 25. 

Vincent Delia, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, widow Peter, farmer 142. 

Vincent Henry, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) farmer, leases of James Foster 52. 

STARKET ac 'WINTERS, Wbolesale and Retail Dragglsts, Owego. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 183 



Vincent Henry G., (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 10, farmer, leases of Delia 

Vincent 142. 
Vunk J. Frank, carpenter, h Main. 
Walker Albert, (Berkshire) r 45, farmer 86. 
Walker Lyman M., r 43, farmer 130. 
Walker Orrin, r 40, farmer 196. 
WATKINS AMOS G., justice of the peace and dealer in horses, cattle, 

sheep and swine, also farmer 400, and with James L. Watson estate 195, 

h Main. 
Watkins Eugene, (Harford, Cort. Co.) r 23, farmer 31. 
Welch Luther H., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) off r 23, farmer 84. 
Welch Rufus H., (Caroline, Tomp. Co.) off r 23, carpenter and farmer 130. 
Westcott Matthew, conductor Southern Central R. R., h Main. 
Wheaton Mason S., (Harford, Cort. Co.) r. 29, farmer 67. 
Wightman George W., r 43, farmer. 
Wilbur James F., prop, grist-mill at Harford and dealer in flour, meal and 

feed. 
Wilcox Frederick, off r 18, laborer. 

Wilcox Gardner, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r.9, farmer 160. 
Wilcox John, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 8 cor. 21, farmer 95. 
Wilcox Justin, (Harford Mills, Cort. Co.) r 9, farmer. 
Wilcox Smith, r 10, farmer 10, and leases of Ransom Sexton 160. 
Williams Cyrel, (Harford Mills, Cortland Go.) r 12, farmer 52. 
Williamson James, r 50, farmer 43. 
Wilson Josiah, r 50, farmer 44. 
Witter Daniel P., r 44, dairy 14 cows, farmer 143. 
Woodard Edgar, r 10, laborer. 
Woodard Elijah, r 10, laborer. 
Woodard John, r 33, farmer 54. 
Woodard John P., r 33, farmer 50. 
Woods Elisha B., r 40, contractor and builder, and dealer in apples and all 

kinds of furs and hides. 
YAPLE DELOSS, teaming, h Main. 

YAPLE O. A., wife of Deloss, dealer in millinery and fancy goods Main. 
Yaple Philip H., r 25 cor. 26, farmer 100. 
2ee Franklin, r 33, farmer 28. 
Zee Horner, r 50, farmer. 
Zimmer Hiram, r 17, laborer. 



SPENCER. 



{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second.) 

(Fostoffice address is Spencer, unless otherwise designated in parenthesis.) 

Abbey Lizzie, millinery, Main, h do. 
Abbott Andrew, (North Spencer) r i, farmer 100. 
Abbott :^euben, cartman, h Brooklyn. 
Abbott Solomon, drug clerk,, h Academy. 

STARKEY &, WINTEAS, promptly fill mall and Telepbone Orders. 



1 84 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



Ackerman Riley, farm laborer, h Main. 

Ackerman Roscoe E., r 34, farmer, leases of Samuel Eastham 40. 

Ackles Lewis, (North Spencer) r 22, laborer. 

Acfcles Truman, r 29, farmer. 

Adams Frank W., (North Spencer) r 19, justice of the peace, and farmer 120. 

Adams William, r 48, farmer. 

Aldred Cynthia, widow Robert B., resident, h Park. 

Allen Jerome, r 8, laborer. 

Allen Olive, widow Joel, resident, bds. Main. 

Ammerman Daniel, r 43, retired farmer. 

Armstrong Dennison B., laborer, h Liberty. 

Armstrong William H., emp. Seely's Mill, h Van Etten. 

Bacorn Darius, r 27, farmer, leases of Dr. Davis 40. 

Bailey Oliver P., r 48, farmer 50. 

Baker Emily, widow Epaphras, resident, h Van Etten. 

BAKER L. E.,. prop. Spencer Marble Works, h Academy. 

Barber Adeline, off r 41, widow of Stockholm, farmer 50. 

Barber Charles, r 61, laborer. 

Barber Fred C, oflf r 41, farmer. 

Bartley Larow, farmer, h Mill. 

Bartrom John P., (Halsey Valley), r 54, farmer 50. 

Batz Jacob, retired, h North ave. 

Beadle Edward G., laborer, bds. Liberty. 

Beadle Geora:e, resident, h Liberty. 

Bell Alfred F., r 17, farmer. 

BeUis Elizabeth Miss, laundress, h Academy. 

Benedict William H., emp. Seely's Mill, h Liberty. 

Benton Harry, r 13, farmer. 

Benton James, r 14, farmer 103. 

Benton William, r 13, farmer 10. 

Berry Nathaniel, (North Spencer) r 19, farmer 8. 

Besley Reuben D., emp. Seely's Mill, h Laurel. 

Bidlack Ranson, r 54, farmer 177. 

BINGHAM I. AUGUSTUS, r 10, farmer 250. 

Bingham Seth H., r 10, farmer. 

Blanch Maria, widow David, resident, h Brooklyn. 

Bliven Charles, resident, h Main. 

Bliven Luther, r 33, farmer 92. 

Bliven Samuel G., retired, h Van Etten. 

Boda Charles, r 11, farmer 150. 

Boda Frederick C, breeder and dealer in horses and cattle, and farmer 50, 

Boda George, r loj, farmer 50. 

Bogart John J., r 42, laborer. 

Bogert Clarence, r 53, laborer. 

Bogert Franklin, r 33, laborer. 

Bogert Orlando W., r 33, laborer. 

Bogert William W., r 49, farmer 50, and leases of Jane Williams 128. 

Bosley Asa, r 27, dairy 30 cows, farmer, leases of Seymour Seeley 360. 

Bowen James G., r 28, laborer. 

Bower Brothers, (Philip and Levi) furniture and undertaking, Main. 

Bower Philip A., (Bower Bros.) h Main. 

Bower Levi, (Bower Bros.) bds. at Van EttenviUe. 

Bowen Samuel, r 24, laborer. 

Bowen Seth, groceries, Academy, bds. do. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 1 85 



Bradley Calvin W., retired, h Main. 

Bradley Charles E., merchant, Main, h do. 

Brearley Arthur J., r 43, brickmaker. 

Brearley Willie J., r 43, laborer. 

Breese Frank, r 42, farmer, leases of L. Emmons 80. 

Breese Fred P., r 43, emp. brickyard. 

[Brock Clinton, r 18, farmer 50. 

Brock Estella, teacher, bds. Academy. 

Brock Ethel, farmer, h Academy. 

BROCK JOHN, r 42, dealer in cattle and breeder of sheep and lambs, also 

wool-buyer, and farmer 280. 
Brock John A., r 34, farmer, leases of Ethel Brock 15b. 
brooks Daniel, r 26, farmer 85. 

Brooks Daniel C., agricultural implements, and farmer 145, h Maple ave. 
CBROOKS GEORGE, r 45, justice of the peace, and farmer 55. 
[Brooks Leonard, r 15, clerk. 
,Brooks Victor W., r 45, farmer 47. 
Brown Frederick R., r 33, farmer 50 in Candor, and leases of J. Thompson, 

of Candor, 250. 
Brown Lee A., r 43, laborer. 
Brown William, r 18, cooper. 
BRUNDAGE DeWITT C, carriage, wagon, and sleigh manuf., VanEtten, 

h. do. 
Brundage Jay C, wagon-maker, bds. VanEtten. 
Buckley Frank A., r 43, laborer. 
Bunnell Charles, r 37, farmer 53. 
Burchard Stephen, r 34, farmer 16. 
Burdick Peter, r 42, stone mason. 
Burhyte Andrew, r 43, farmer 147. 
Burtless James, (North Spencer) r 2, basket-maker. 
Buttles Morden U., (VanEttenville, Chemung Co.) r 43, farmer 75. 
Butts Andrew P., retired tanner, h Main. 
"Butts Celestia, widow Hyatt, resident. 

Butts Charles E., justice of the peace, and farmer 127, h Main. 
Butts Charles E., Jr., carpenter, bds. Main. 
Butts Fred G., farmer with his father Charles E., bds. Main. 
'Butts Harvey, laborer, btls. Main. 
Canfield Edgar E., teamster, h VanEtten. 
Canfield Fred U., miller, h Liberty. 

Card Albert J., street commissioner, and farmer 52, h VanEtten. 
CARD ALVIN D., r 43, farmer 94. 
Card Charles B., r 43, cider-mill. 
Carter Frank E., barber, Main, h Water. 
Cashady Guy, meat-market, Main, h Brooklyn. 
Cashady John, (Halsey Valley) r 54, farmer 133. 
Cashman William H,, r 37, farmer. 
Cavanaugh Edwin, (North Spencer) r 21, farmer 50. 
Chadrick Lewis, r 41, farmer 97. 
Chapman Samuel, lumberman, h Main. 
Chapman Willard E., (North Spencer) r 2, laborer. 
Clapp John W., miller, h VanEtten. 
Clapp Walker G., photographer, VanEtten, h do. 
Clarey Dennis, emp. L. V. R. R., h Liberty. 



1 86 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



C^ark Howard, carpenter, h Brooklyn. ; 

Clark John S., upholsterer; bds. Brooklyn. 

Clark Lewis, r 34, blacksmith, and farmer 90, and leases of James Bishop, of 
Candor, 100. 

Clark Samuel, (Halsey Valley)r 59. 

Clark Shepard B., medical student, bds. Brooklyn. 

Clark Sylvenus B., r 38, blacksmith and farmer, works for Lewis Clark 90. 

Clark Theodore A., r 9, farmer 215. 

Clark William A., (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 12. 

Clay John, r 26, farmer 85. 

Coggin George E., r 15, farmer 100. 

COMPTON SILAS, (West Candor) r 37, general blacksmith and wagon- 
maker, horse-shoeing a specialty, served in Co. F, 76th N. Y. Vols. 

Coney Frank G., emp. Seely's mill, h Liberty. 

Coney Irving M., r 28, lumberman. 

Congdon V. B., r 51, farmer 56. 

Converse Lottie, r 41, widow Theodore, farmer 160. 

Cook Almon, (North Spencer) r i, resident. 

Cook Anderson B., (North Spencer} station agent and telegraph operator, 
also machinist. 

Cornell Charles S., r 43, grain threshing, and farmer 100. 

Cortright Albert, r 48, farmer 8, and leases of A. S. Emmons 120. 

Cortright Ayres D., (Halsey Valley) r 54^ mason and farmer. 

Cortright David, (Halsey Valley) r 54, farmer 16. 

iCowell Alvah, (North Spencer) r 19, farmer. 

cCowell Betsey, (North Spencer) r i, widow Lewis, farm 45. 

Lowell Charles, (North Spencer) r i, farmer 150. 

^Cowell Edward, (North Spencer) rig, farmer 150. 

i^Cowell Eliza, (North Spencer) rig, widow James, resident. 

rCowell ~Eva S., teacher, bds. Maple ave. 

fCowell Mariette, (North Spencer) r i, widow John A., farm 19. 

■iCowell Mary A., widow John, resident, h Main. 

■fCowles Aaron, (North Spencer) r i, farmer, leases of A. Abbott 100. 

X^lowles Almiron, (North Spencer) r i, farmer 50, and leases of D. Randall 
of Etna 50. 

fCowles Ebenezer, emp. Seely's Mill, h Liberty. 

JfCowles Jason, r 24, farmer 50. 

+Cowles John S., (North Spencer) r 2, farmer, leases of Almiron Cowles 50. 

4Cowles Marcus K, (North Spencer) r 2, lumberman, and farmer 127. 

-Kllowles Mary L., (North Spencer) r 2, owns with Edgar D. Sabin of Can- 
dor 107. 

-Cowles Sylvester, (North Spencer) r 2, carpenter. 

Crafts Calvin B., student, bds. Main. 

Crane John, r 27, farmer 22. 

Crum Peter, r 48, farmer 50. 

Curamings Albert, r 40, lumberman and farmer, leases of Jerome Thompson 

of Candor 180. 
Cummings Andrew, r 61, laborer. 
Cummings Jacob W., r42^, farmer 12. 

Cummings Williams P., (Van Ettenville) r 43, musician and farmer. 
Daughty Robert, laborer, bds. Liberty. 
Davenport Arthur V., r 66, farmer. 
Davenport John S., clerk, bds. Main. 



^ TOWN OF SPENCER. 1 87 

DAVENPORT SHERMAN, r 66, farmer 50. 

Davis Cornelius W., farmer, h Academy. 
• DAVIS GEORGE W., physician and surgeon, Main, h do. 

Davis Isaac S., r 38, laborer. 

■'^^T''^^ JEROME S., manuf. of all kinds mowing machine icnives, and Buckeye 
hand cornplanters. also all kinds of machine job work. Cedar, bds do 

Dawson Chester, r 32, farmer 173. 

Dawson John, ])eddler, h Liberty. 

Dawson Mary E., widow Myron, resident, bds. Main. 

Dawson Nelson, retired, h Main. 

Dawson Seth W., r 32, farmer, leases of Chester 173. 

Dawson Sidney A., r 32, threshing, and farmer 65. 

DAY CYRENUS N., general merchant, h North ave. 

DAY JOHN & SON, (Cyrenus N.) hardware, stoves and tinware, groceries 
and provisions, boots and shoes, and agricultural implements. Main. 

DAY JOHN, general merchant, h Maple. 

Day William S:, r 28, blacksmith, and farmer 78. 

DEAN EDWARD E-, atty. at law. Main, h do. 

Dean Mary, r 47, widow Casper, farm 16. 

Dean Orrin F., farmer 54, h Main. 

Decker Andrew, r 6r, laborer. 

Decker William, emp. Bower Bros., h at Van Ettenville. 

Deming Augustus C, r 61, farnier 192. 

Deming Joseph B., r 61, farmer. 

Deming William H., r 63, stump-pulling and farmer 36. 

Deriniston Chester B.,' asst. station agt. G. I. & S. R. R. and telegraph opp. 
h Liberty. 

De Remer Enos, (West Candor) r 36, carpenter. 

De Remer Olan, (West Candor) r 36, farmer 75. 

Devereaux Seymour, r 61, laborer. 

Dewey Charles, r 11, farmer. 

Deyo Chauncey, r 33, mason. 

Deyo Harry, r 33, mason. 

Dickens Robert E., emp. Seely's mill, h off Liberty. 
Dikeman George, r 59, farmer 103. 
Dodge Alvin, retired, h Myrtle. 
Dodge Anthony, r 49, lumberman. 

Dodge Sarah A., r 18, widow Edwin, saw-mill and farm 190. 
Dorn Abram, r 32, farmer 60, and leases of Nelson Dawson 107. 
Doty Asa T., r 26, farmer 109. 

Douglass James, r 26, farmer, leases of Edward Co well 100. 
Downey Frank, laborer, h Academy. 
Downey Robert L., sawyer, h Academy. 
Drake Charles W., farmer 35, h Van Etten. 
Dresser Jacob S., clerk for S. A. Seely, h Railroad ave. 
Dumond Harry, watchmaker and jeweler Main, h Center. 
Dutton James, r 45, laborer. 
Eastham John, (West Candor) farmer 40. 

Easthain Lucy A., (West Candor) r 39, widow of Edmund, farm 59. 
Eastham Peter, farmer 50. 

EASTHAM SAMUEL, (West Candor) r 37, prop, saw-mill and manf. and 
dealer in hemlock lumber, lath and wood, also shipper of baled hay 
and straw, and farmer 165, and works for Maggie Eastham 100. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 



Eastham Thomas, (West Candor) r 39, farmer io6. 

Eastham Thomas J., farmer 80. 

Eaton Harris, (North Spencer) r 22, farmer 2. 

Edwards Clarissa, widow Philo, resident, h Liberty. 

Edwards George, r 28, laborer. 

Elbrooks Charles, clerk, bds. Main. 

Elbrooks Elmore L., clerk, h Main. 

Ellis Edwin R., lumberman, h Van Etten. 

Embody Isaac, laborer, h Main. 

Emery David, r 32, farmer 90. 

Emery James C, r 13, prop, saw-mill and farmer 33. 

EMMONS ALFRED S., general merchant and farmer 260, Van Et ten, h do. 

EMMONS LUCIUS E., drugs, books and stationery, Main, h do. 

English Minor W., (Van Ettenville, Chemung Co.) r 64, farmer 150. 

Ennis Aldis F., farmer, h Academy. 

Ennis Samuel, farmer, h Academy. 

Esraay Claude H., drug'clerk, bds. Main. 

Eveland Samuel, r 53, laborer. 

Fanning Andrew J., r 41, laborer. 

FARMERS' AND MERCHANTS' BANK OF SPENCER, (Thomas Brock, 

pres't ; O. P. Dimon, vice-pres't ; M. D. Fisher, cashier ; M. B. Ferris, 

ass't cashier, Main. 
Farnsworth Edgar, farmer, h Main. 
Farnsworth George, laborer, h Cedar. 
Farnsworth James, r 45, farmer 26, 
Farnsworth Marcellus, r 24, laborer. 
Ferguson George N., shoemaker. Main, h do. 
Ferris Andrew P., laborer, h Laurel. 
Ferris S. Arthur, r 49, farmer. 
Ferris Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer 50. 
Ferris Cornelia, widow George H., resident, h Main. 
Ferris Cyrus B., r 49, farmer 82. 
:FerrIs Daniel, (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer 63. 

■Ferris David A., r 63, carpenter and farmer, works for Electa A. Ferris 30. 
•Ferris Edmund, r 53, farmer 127. 
Terris Gabriel, off r 41, farmer. 
-FERRIS GEORGE C, (West Candor) r 35, apiarist 50 colonies, and far- 

mer 100. 
■^erris James, off r 41, farmer 50. 
(Ferris John, r 40, farmer 90. 
[F'erris Harvey, r 53, farmer. 
Ferris Louisa, widow Joshua H., resident, Main. 
^Ferris Moses, r 49, farmer 50. 
Ferris Myron, (West Candor) r 36, laborer. 
FERRIS MYRON B., ass't cashier Farmers' and Merchants' Bank, also fire 

and life insurance, h Main. 
(•Ferris Willis C, r 57, farmer, leases of D. B. Hadorn 120. 
Field Henry E., farmer, h Main. 
Fields Noah, farmer 50, h Main. 
FISHER BERT F., (Fisher Bros.) r 19, musician. 
FISHER BROTHERS, (B. F. and S. J. F.) r 19, dairy 20 cows, farmers,, 

lease of J.' P. Fisher 190. 
Fisher Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 25. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 1 89 

Fisher Charles A., r 28, farmer, leases of Harriet L. Fisher 80. 

Fisher Charles J., drugs and medicines, Main, h do. 

Fisher Clarence, (Halsey Valley) r 59, laborer. 

Fisher Fred M., laborer, h Main. 

Fisher Joseph T., r 17, farmer. 

-iFisher Leonard, farmer, h Liberty. 

FISHER MARVIN D., postmaster, and general merchant. Main, h do. 

Fisher PhiHp J., farmer, h Main. 

•Fisher Robert H., r 17, dairy 30 cows, farmer 375. 

FISHER STEPHEN J., (Fisher Bros.) r 19. 

Fisher Susan, widow Thomas, resident, h Main. 

Fisher William H., physician and surgeon. Main, h do. 

Fleming WilUam H., farmer 280, h Academy. 

Forsyth Augustus, r 33, laborer. 

Forsyth Henry, r 37, farmer 77. 

Forsyth Henry B., (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 60. 

Forsyth Hettie, resident, bds. North ave. 

Forsyth Nelson A., r 40, apiarist, and dealer in bee-keeper's supplies, also 

farmer 25. 
Forsyth Perry, r 13, laborer. 
Forsyth Rumsey, (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 50. 
Forsyth Wallace, r 40, laborer. 

Fox John, (North Spencer) r 2, leases of Bethaney Hill 50. 
Frisbie Lucinda, widow Charles, resident, h Academy. 
Fulton Frederic, r 66, farmer 50. 
Fulton Maria, r 47, wife of Frederic, farm 45. 
Furman Horace, (North Spencer) off r 19, farmer 80. 
Gallagher Patrick, emp. Seeley's mill, h off Liberty. 
Galpin George R., r 34, farmer. 
Galpin James, r 34, farmer 60. 
Galpin Orrin B., r 34, farmer. 
Garatt Elmore, r 38, farmer with Harriet 218. 
Garatt Harriet, r 38, widow Corinth, farmer with Elmore 218. 
Garatt S. C, widow A.masa, milliner. Van Etten, h do. 
Garey Abram L., wagon-maker, h Brooklyn. 
Garey Daniel, (North Spencer) r 2, shoemaker. 
Gay Patrick, (West Candor) r 37, farmer 150. 
GEORGIA D. LAMONT, supt. Spencer creamery, h Liberty. 
Georgia Mary M., widow Nathan S., resident, h Liberty. 
Georgia William W., emp. Spencer creamery, h Liberty. 
Gilbert Burdett, r 42, laborer. 

Gilbert Norman A., barber, Brooklyn cor. Main, h Creek.. 
Giles Mary, r 41, farm 75. 
Gilkie Riley, r 61, farmer 3. 

GOEHNER LOUIS G., r 54, cigar manuf. and farmer. 
Goodfich Austin L., foreman Seeley's mill,' h Liberty. 
Goodrich Calvin E., r 61, farmer 30. 
Goodrich Calvin J., r 61, stone mason, h Myrtle. 
Goodsell Rebecca A., widow Jared H., resident, bds. Liberty. 
Green Anson, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer. 
Green John B., resident, h Park. 
Green Wheeler Q, (Halsey Valley) r 54, farmer 105. 
Greer Charlotte, r 61, farm 24. 



I-gO TOWN OF SPENCER. 

GrifSn James A., carpenter and builder, Park, h do. 

Griffith Absalom, r 14, blacksmith and farmer 60. 

Griffith Frederick D., clerk, h Center. 

Grinnell Daniel P., r 13, laborer. 

GROVE HOTEL, C. J. Rice, manager, opp. G. I. & S. depot. 

GUINNIP DEMPSTER N., painter, paper-hanger, Brooklyn, h North ave. 

GUINNIP GEORGE, painter and paper-hanger, Brooklyn, h North ave. 

«AGAD0RN DAVID B., r 57, feed-mill, and farmer 193. 

Hall Cornelia L., r 38 cor. 41, wife of H. S., farm in Ulysses, Tomp. Co. 95. 

Hall Harvey Smith, r 38 cor. 41, manuf. and dealer in lumber and shingles, 

and farmer 600. 
Hall Leonard F., r 38, wagon-maker. 
Hallock Emily, widow John, resident, h Main. 
Hallock William M., farmer 138, h Main. 
Hanson Charles, tinsmith, h Main. 
Harding Ella Mrs., resident, h Main. 
Hart Morris, r 8, farmer 50. 
Haskins Charles, laborer, h Brooklyn. 
Hawkins Albert, r 49, farmer. 
Hawley Edward, laborer, h Myrtle. 
Hawley Edward, r 18, farmer. 
kHead Bradfprd, r 47, laborer. 

Head Theron, r 47, tobacco-grower and farmer, leases of A. J. Card 21. 
Hedges Frank L., emp. Seely's mill, h Academy, 
Hedges Laton N., resident, h Aurora. 

Hess John. (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer, leases of Daniel Ferris 63. 
Hevland William H., r 45, laborer. 
Hiers Theodore, laborer; h Main. 
Hike W. Harvey, mason, h Academy. 

Hill Bethaney, (North Spencer) r 2, widow Luther, farm 50. 
Hilligas Joshua, life insuralice, h Tompkins ave. 
Hinds James H., (Halsey Valley) r 54, laborer. 

Hinds William H., (Halsey Valley)r 54, farmer leases of Joshua Tompkins no. 
Holdridge Amos, r 41, with William A., farmer 217. 
HOLDRIDGE WILLIAM A., r 41, apiarist, and with Amos farmer 217. 
HoUister Warren L., (West Candor) off r 39, farmer 90. 
Homiston Ezra W., physician and surgeon. Main, h do. 
Hover Elisha, (West Candor) r 39, farmer. 
iHouse George W., (North Spencer) r i, farmer 107. 
House John P., mason, h Academy. 
JHouse Lewis M., (North Spencer) r 22, farmer 175. 
Howard Alvin, (West Candor) laborer. 
Howard Henry, off r 66, laborer. 

Howard Loring P. Rev., pastor M. E. church, h Van Etten. 
Howell Charles, r 47, laborer. 

Howell Frank C, book-keeper Bachelor's endowment association, h Main. 
Howell Henry H., r 6r, farmer 50. 
Howell Ira M., farmer 45, h Van Etten. 
Howell James K., r 47, farmer 5. 
Howell John, r 47, farmer 27. 

Howell Myron P., station agt. G. I. & S. R. R., h Park. 
Howell Norman J., r 61, brickmaker. 

STARKKY & WINTERS, 'Wholesale and Retail Drngglsts, Owego. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. 191 



Hubbell Ira, r 27, laborer. 
Hugg Horace A., carpenter, h Liberty. 
Hugg Luman H., r 28, farmer 119, 
'Hulburt Luther J., (North Spencer) r 20, farmer 130. 
Hulet George, r 26, farmer. 
-Hull Eben, blacksmith, Cedar, h Main. 
rHull James B., r 30 cor. 54, farmer 125. 
Hull Loring W., farmer 100, h Main. 
'Hunt Isaiah, retired, h Main. 

Hunt James O., off r 51, farmer, leases of Isaiah Hunt 87. 
'Hutchings Eli M., carpenter, h Laurel. 
'Hyatt William, farmer 14, h Main. 
Johnson Allen, off r 66, laborer. 

ohnston Chauncey, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer. 

^Dftnston David, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer 140. 

ohnston Ira, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer. 

oy Abel, ofFr 13, farmer. 

by Alyah, r 10, farmer 50. 

Joy Daniel, r 42^, tobacco grower, and farmer 70. 
oyce Joseph, resident, h Academy. 

Kellogg Mahlon A., (North Spencer) postmaster, and general merchant. 

Kelsey Charles, r 23, farmer 100. 

Kelsey Lewis, off r 24, farmer 50. 

Kelsey Walter, r 61, farmer. 

Kelsh John G., laborer, h Brooklyn. 

Ketcham Henry, r 33, laborer. 

Keyes Nathan, r 23, resident. 

King Duane C, clerk, h North ave. 

Kinner Asa, emp. Seely's mill, h Van Etten. 

Kirk Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 59, carpenter, and farmer 33. 

Kirk Charles N., (Halsey Valley) r 59, blacksmith, and farmer 40. 

Kirk Fred G., (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer. 

Kirk Henry P., (West Candor) off r 39, farmer 75. 

Kirk Stephen, (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 64". 

Knapp EHas, r 53, farmer, leases of Franklin Poole of Barton 75. ' 

Knapp Isaac, (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer 30. 

Knupenburg Frank, r 28, laborer. 

Knupenburg Myron, (North Spencer) r 2, laborer. 

Lake Fred W., (North Spencer) r 2, farmer 99. 

Lake George W., (North Spencer), r ig, farmer 150. 

Lake Harvey, (North Spencer) r 19, farmer to. 

Lake Orlando, (North Spencer) r 19, farmer -15. 

Lane Oscair, (West Candor) r 39, farmer 40. 

Lang Charles F., blacksmith Brooklyn, h Maple. 

Lange Frederick W., r 10 J, farmer 175. 

Langef*arker P., r 10^, farmer. 

Lange William H., l^lacksmith and horse-shoer, h Water. 

Lame James C, r 8, farmer 75. 

Lawrence Ernest, butcher, h Van Etten. 

Lawrence Sevellan F., off r 17, laborer. 

Leonard John, r 31, farrner. 

Leonard Michael, r 31, fairmer 94. 

SXARKEY & TriNTBKS, DFHSglsts, Owego. Close Priced to Dealers, 



192 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



Leonard Sarah J., teacher, bds. Main. 

Leonard William J., butcher, h Main. 

Lewis Benjamin F., r 28, farmer 300. 

Lewis Fred, r 28, farmer. 

Livermore Albert Rev., pastor Presbyterian Church, h Aurora. 

Loomis Herman, r 56, farmer 80. 

Lotz Hartman, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer 56, 

Lyke Stanley, r 3, farmer. 

Lott Benjamin, carpenter, h Laurel. 

Lott Isaac M., clerk, h Water. 

LOUSHAY ADELBERT E., fireman N. Y. L. E. & W. R. R., bds. Liberty. 

Loushay Julia A., widow Henry, h Liberty. 

Mabee Clarence, r 11, farmer. 

Mabee Daniel, blacksmith Van Etten, h do. 

Mabee Franklin H., (Halsey Valley) r 54, farmer 103. 

Mabee John B., r 43, farmer 40. 

Mabee Theodore, r 1 1, farmer 258. 

Maine Ira L., r 42^, farmer 57. 

Maine William F., painter and paper-hanger, h North ave. 

Manning Frank D., (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer 100. 

Manning Robert, (Halsey Valley) r 53, farmer. 

Manning William H., r 13, farmer 170. 

Marsh William, r 61, laborer. 

Martin Charles, laborer, h Main. 

Martin Frank A., r 17, farmer, leases 105. 

Martin Jane B., r 17, widow IrsC, farm 85. 

Martin Olive C, r 17, farm 50. 

Matteson George E., dentist. Main, h Center. 

McFall Dorus H., farmer, h Tompkins ave. 

McKee George R., carpenter, h Van Etten. 

McKoon Patrick, (West Candor) r 34, laborer. 

McMaster James O., manf. and dealer in lumber, lath and wood, with 

Jeremiah T. 
McMaster Jeremiah T., r 53, prop, saw-mill, dealer in lumber, lath and 

wood, also farmer 550. 
McMaster Susan Mrs., bds. Van Etten. 
Mead John, (North Spencer) r 2, farmer 50. 
Mead Lewis, (North Spencer) r 2, laborer. 
Messenger Chauncey P., emp. Seely's mill, h off Liberty. 
Middaugh John, r 61, farmer. 
Miller Edmund, emp. A. Seely, h Liberty. 
Miller Sherman, laborer, h Main. 
Mills Henry C, station agent E. C. & N. R. R., also National Express agent, 

h Brooklyn. 
Montgomery George, expressman, bdsi Academy. 
Montgomery John, expressman, h Academy. 
Montgomery William, shoemaker, Brooklyn, h Maple. 
Moody Charles E., r 42, milk dealer, market gardener and farmer, leases of 

Charles Moody 95. 
Morse Dana, peddler, h Van Etten. 
Morse Mary M., resident, h Van Etten. 
Mosher Stephen G., stationary engineer, h Park. 
Mosher William G., emp. Seely's mill, h Liberty. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. I93 

Mosier Bartley L., r 13, farmer 32. 

Mowers Jacob Henry, (North Spencer) r 20J, prop, saw-mill, and farmer 60. 

Nelson William B., emp. Seely's mill, h Academy. 

Newman Daniel, niason, h Main. 

Newman Henry, r 48, farmer 50. 

Newman William H., r 48, cabinet-maker and farmer, leases of Henry New- 
man 50. 

News Gabriel P., off r 41, farmer 97. 

News Jane, resident, h Cedar. 

Nichols Charles, porter Grove Hotel, bds. do. 

Nichols David A., groceries and provisions, Main, h Liberty. 

Nichols Jane, widow John A., resident, h Academy. 

NORRIS ALONZO, M. D., physician and surgeon, also, farm 550. 

O'Connor Jerry, R. R. section foreman, h North ave. 

Odell Marcellus C, billiards, pool-room and restaurant Main, h do. 

Odell William H., r 40, farmer 83. 

Osborn John, meat market, h Van Etteti. 

Osborn John C, r 43, carpenter. 

Ostrander Jerome, retired, bds. Aurora. 

Ostrander Mary J., widow William, h Aurora. 

Owen Fidelia, widow Elijah, resident, h Liberty. 

PALMER HEMAN L., (J. H. Palmer & Son), also telegraph opp. h Main. 

PALMER T. H. & SON, (Heman L.) undertakers,' Main. 

PALMER JOHN H., (J. H. Palmer & Son) also farmer 45. 

Parks Anthony, farm laborer, h Main. 

Parlett Robert, Jr., bakery Academy, h Railroad. 

Patrick Alva T., clerk, h Liberty. 

Patty Jasper, r 66, farmer 105. 

Pelan James, r 18, laborer. 

Perrin Alexander, r 31, farmer 60. 

Perrin Daniel, r 31, farmer. 

Perrin William, r 13, blacksmith, and farmer 73. 

Personius Ester, widow Jacob, housekeeper. Maple ave. 

Personius Myron C, (North Spencer; off r 19, section hand, and farmer 50. 

PERT ELLEN P., widow Rev. Luther B., resident, h Liberty. 

Pierson George, carpenter and builder, h Academy. 

Post Catherine, widow Thomas L., resident, h Main. 

Post Thomas, r 3, farmer 280. 

Post William, resident, h Van Etten. 

Pritchard Pratt A., blacksmith, h Academy. 

Puff Charles H., buyer for S. A. Seely, h Park. 

Quick Elmer, (West Candor) r 37, farmer 50. 

Radeline Sarah A., r 6, farmer 40. 

RANSOM WILLIAM, r 41, farmer 124. 

Raub Henry S., r 50,, farmer 150, and in Tomp. Co., 18. 

Raub Robert J., r. 50,. farmer. 

Reeve Aaron D., carpenter, h Liberty. 

RICE CHARLES J., manager Grove Hotel, bds. do. 

Richardson & Campbell, r 43, contractors and builders, also manuf. of Spencer 
brick, residence in Ithaca. 

Richardson Sherman, r 32, farmer, works for Milton Dawson estate 100. 

Riker Captain L., r 34, carpenter, and farmer, works for Mrs. C. L. Riker 48. 

Riker Charles F., r 38, farmer 50. 

13 



194 TOWN OF SPENCER. 



Riker Eugene, r 38, farmer, works for Anthony Riker estate. 

Riker James L. Rev., (local M. E.) retired, h Main. 

Riker Oliver P., r 38, farmer 50. 

Riker William H., r 38, carpenter. 

Ritchie George, r 24, farmer. 

Ritter Charles W., emp. Seely's mill, bds. Academy. 

Ritzier Charles C, r 48, photographer, and farmer 22. 

Robinson Clarissa, widow Dana, resident, bds. North ave. 

Robinson Fletcher O., carpenter and builder, h Maple ave. r 

Roe William W., r 38, carpenter. 

Rogers Benjamin F., emp. Seely's mill, h Liberty. 

Rogers John F., resident, h VanEtten. 

Rolfe Leonard, r 40, farmer 50. 

Rumsey Johnson, (Halsey Valley) r 58, farmer 73. 

Rumsey Nelson, laborer, h Maple ave. 

Ryant Daniel J., (North Spencer) r 20, blacksmith. 

RYANT JAMES P., (North Spencer) r 20, with Ransom steam threshing,. 

and farmer 100. 
RYANT RANSOM, (North Spencer) r 20, with James P., steam threshings 

and farmer 100. 
Ryder Thena J., widow James, resident, h Laurel. 
Sabin Otis L., r 42J, with William P., farmer 160. 
Sabin Seth O., r 42^, blacksmith. 
Sabin WiUiara P.,r 42 J, farmer with Otis L., 160. 
Sager Cornelius, (Halsey Valley) off r 58, farmer 52. 
Sager Douglass C, (Halsey Valley) off r 58, farmer 80. 
Sager Willard J., jeweler. Main, h Creek. 
Sammons Matthew, (West Candor) r 37, farmer. 
Sandford James, traveling salesman, h Brooklyn. 
Sawyer Carrie C, teacher, bds. Academy. 
Sawyer Ezra O., contractor and builder. Academy, h do. 
Sawyer Viola M., teacher, bds. Academy. 
Sayles Charles E., (North Spencer) r i, farmer 56. 
Schutt Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 58, farmer 78. 
Schutt Lemuel H., (Halsey Valley) r 58, farmer 25. 
Scofield Albert L., r32, farmer. 
Scofield Horace, r 32, farmer in. 
SCOFIELD WALLACE L., r 15, farmer 115. 
Seely David N., bookkeeper for S. A. Seely, h Railroad ave. 
SEELY FRANCIS S., miller, h Mill. 
Seely Fred, emp. Seely's mill, h Mill. 
Seely Myron, off r 45, farmer 70. 
SEELY S. ALFRED, general merchant, saw and grist-mill, creamery,. 

blacksmith shop, and farmer 140, h head of Academy. 
Seely Seymour, farmer, h Mill. 
Seely Seymour A., resident, bds. Maple ave. 
SHAW GEORGE E., r 40, apiarist 70 swarms, and farmer 25. 
Shaw Henry C, r 56, farmer 90. 
Shaw Henry W., r 57, farmer 71. 

Shaw John W., (West Candor) r 39, carpenter and farmer 54. 
SHAW JOSEPH B., (West Candor) r 39, farmer 100, served in Co. G, ist 

N. Y. Veteran Cavalry. 
Shaw Silas H., r 40, farmer 60. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. I95 



Shaw William, r 54^ mason and farmer 87. 

Shepard George T., r. 28 cor. 30, live stock dealer and farmer with J. Q. 

Shepard. 
Shepard Goodrich C, r 33, farmer 107. 
Shepard Hattie F., teacher, bds. Liberty. 
Shepard Heth H., r 43, laborer. 

Shepard John Q., r 28 cor. 30, dealer in cattle and sheep, and farmer 255. 
Shepard La Grange S., r 6, farmer 106. 
Shepard Lewis A., clerk, bds. Main. 
Shepard Myfa A., widow Sylvester, resident, h Liberty. 
SHEPARD SYLVENUS, general merchant, Van Etten, h do. 
Signer Adonijah, (North Spencer) r 2, lumberman and farmer. 
Signer Albert, (North Spencer) r 2, prop, saw-mill and farmer 519. 
Signer Edward, r 28, farmer 4. 
Silke Louisa, clerk, h Bailroad ave. 
SILKE JAMES, supt. Seely's mill, h Railroad. 

Simms John C, (Van Ettenville, Chemung Co.) r 43, carpenter, farmer 50. 
Simras William R., (Van Ettenville, Chemung Co.) farmer. 
Sineepaugh William, farm laborer, h Main. 
Sipley Sidney W., r 49, traveling salesman and farmer 50. 
Skinner Oliver, farmer, h Main. 
Smith Edmund, ofFr 47, farmer 140; 
Smith Leroy, (North Spencer) r 22, farmer. 
Smith Schuyler F.,_(Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 40. 
Smith William H., (North Spencer) r i, leases of F. B. Clark 46. 
Sniffin William A., general merchant. Main, h Liberty. 
SNOOK DAVID L., apiarist 75 swarms, and harness-maker, Main, h do. 
Snook Esther, widow Peter, resident, bds. Main. 
Snyder Sely, r 40, farmer 130. 
Southern Tier Bachelors' Endowment Association, (\V. H. Fisher, M. D., 

prest.; W. R. Swartout, secy.; M. P. Howell, treas.) Academy. 
Spaulding Axlelbert, r 47, laborer. 
Spaulding Ftances, r 43, wife of G. S., farm 100. 
Spaulding John J., r 47, farmer 128. 
Spaulding John P., r 47, laborer. 
Spaulding John S., r 43, farmer, works 100. 
Spaulding Maria, widow Joseph, resident, h Main. 
Spaulding Phineas E., traveling salesman, h Liberty. 
SPENCER CREAMERY, (S. A. Seely, prop., D. La M. Georgia, supt.) 

Liberty. 
"SPENCER HERALD, (Van Gelder & Son, publishers) Main. 
Spencer Hezekiah, r 6";, farmer 55. 

SPENCER MARBLE WORKS, L. E. Baker, prop.. Academy. 
Stage Eliab, clerk, bds. Liberty. 
Stage Philip A., (North Spencer) r zr, farmer 92. 
Stanclift Elizabeth, teacher, bds. Main. 
StancUft Isaac S., general merchant. Van Etten, h do. 
Starkes Charles, laborer. 
Stebbins Frederick, farm laborer, h Liberty. 
STEENBURG ALBION L., r 13, with Francis E., prop. Spencer Springs 

farm 119. 
Steenburg Asa H., r 13, farmer. 



1.96 TOWN OP SPENCER. 



STEENBURG FRANCIS E., r 13, with Albion L., prop. Spencer Springs 

farm 119. 
Stevens Charles N., (North Spencer) r i, farmer 64. 
Stevens David, r 11, farmer 75. 
Stevens Harmon, r 13 cor. io|-, farmer 158. 
Stevens Jacob, r 33, farmer 59, and in Candor 75. 
Stevens John, (West Candor) r 36, laborer. 
Stevens Seneca, r 65, carpenter and farmer 30. 
Stevens Thomas J., (North Spencer) r i,. farmer 50. 
Stevens William H.. r 41, basket-maker. 
Stewart Ira, (North Spencer) r 20^, farmer 80. 
Stilson Dianna, (West Candor) widow of James L., farm 37, and with N. T. 

Stilson 60. 
Stilson James L., (West Candor) off r 39, farmer 97. 
STILSON NELSON T., (West Candor) off r 39, farmer 100, and with 

Diana 60. 
Stone Silas, (West. Candor) r 37, farmer, leases of Patrick Gay 150. 
Stow John M., turning and sawing, North ave., h do. 
Strait David, r 37, laborer. 

Stubbs William A., r 43, farmer 42, served in Co. C, 76th N. Y. Vols. 
Sutton Charles A., emp. Seely's mill, h off Liberty. 
Sutton William W., emp. Seely's mill, h Liberty. 
Swartout James, (North Spencer) r 22, farmer. 
Swartout Lewis, (North Snencer) r 22, farmer 28. 
SWARTOUT MARCUS L., (M. L. Swartout & Son) h Ithaca. 
SWARTOUT M. L. & SON, (William R.) produce dealers. Academy. 
SWARTOUT WILLIAM R., (M. L. Swartout & Son) also secretary 

Southern Tier Bachelors Endowment Association, h Academy. 
Tanner J. Henry, laborer, bds. Centre. 
Tanner John H., physician and surgeon, h Centre. 
Taylor Simeon, r 43, engineer. 

Thornton Fred V., emp. Seely's mill, bds. Van Etten. 
Thornton George, (West Candor) r 37, carpenter. • 
Thornton John J., emp. Seely's mill, h Van Etten. 
Thornton Mary, (North Spencer) r 19, widow of Charles, resident. 
Tollman Ansel B., r 27, farmer 20. 
Tompkins James, r 37, farmer 217. 

Tompkins James B., r 37, farmer, leases of James Tompkins 217. 
rOMPKINS JOSHUA, farmer, h Tompkins ave. 
Tucker William, r 42, farmer 53. 
Fuckerman Hector, laborer. 
Turk Charles M., resident, bds. Maple ave. 
Turk Charles,' blacksmith, h Myrtle. 
)frurk David, blacksmith. Academy, h Main. 
iCTurk Stephen D., blacksmith and constable. Academy, h Main. 
Tuttle Benjamin P., emp. Seely's mill, h Liberty. 
Tyler George, r 51, farmer 56. 
Tyler Henry E., r 59, farmer loi. 
-Tyler James, off r 66, laborer. 
Valentine Adrian A., r 54, farmer. 
Valentine Electa J., r 54, widow William, farm 104. 
Valentine Elvin, (West Candor) r 35, farmer 30. 
Valentine Fred, (West Candor) r 35, farmer 50. 



TOWN OF SPENCER. I97 



Valentine Jacob E., r 54, teacher. 

Vallentine William O., r 54, teacher. 

Van Duyn William C, emp. Seely's Mill, h Liberty. 

VAN GELDER & SON, (Phineas C. and Charles J.) publishers of Spencer 
Herald, Main. 

VAN GELDER CHARLES J. (Van Gelder & Son) h Park. 

VAN GELDER PHINEAS C, (Van Gelder & Son) h Park. 

Van Gelder William, emp. A. Seely, h Railroad. 

Van Gorder Lafayette, r 50, farmer 28. 

Van Marter Aaron, resident, h North ave. 

Van Marter Amos, r 41, apiarist 42 colonies, farmer 58, and leases of Silas- 
Shaw 60. 

Van Marter Enos T., (West Candor) r 35, dealer in groceries, and farmer 5. 

VAN MARTER HOUSE, Jacob Van Kuren, prop., Main. 

Van Marter Jared, (Halsey Valley) r 54, saw-mill. 

Van Marter Nelson, (West Candor) farmer. 

Van Natta Edwin, r 66, farmer 85, and leases of W. H. Fleming 275. 

Van Natta Fred, r 47, carpenter, and farmer iii. 

Van Natta John, r 52, farmer 107. 

Vankleek Jesse B., r 63, carpenter, and farmer 16. 

VAN KUREN BEN S., clerk Van Marter House, bds. do. 

VAN KUREN JACOB, prop. Van Marter House, Main. 

Van Natta John D., r 47, butcher. 

Van Norman Cassius M., emp. Seely's mill, h Railroad. 

Van Norton John, r 65, laborer. 

Van Norton Warren, r 65, laborer. 

Van Ostrand Peter, off r 47, farmer 30. 

Van Ostrand Truman, off r 47, laborer. 

VAN WOERT LEWIS J., r 7, assessor, and farmer 175. 

Van Woert Maria E., r 13, wife of Samuel, farm 25. 

VAN WOERT WILLIAM G., r 15, auctioneer, and farmer 65. 

Vorhis A. Louisa, widow Rev. Stephen, resident, h Aurora. 

Vorhis James W., mason, h Brooklyn. 

Vorhis John W., retired, bds. North ave. 

Vorhis J. Wallace, mason, h North ave. 

Vorhis Mary H., teacher, bds. Aurora. 

Vorhis Mead, cartman, h Main. 

Vorhis Rebecca, (North Spencer) rig, widow Jacob, farm 50. 

Vorhis Truman, (North Spencer) i rg, manuf. washing machines, and 
farmer 43. 

Vose Ephriam, r 38, carpenter and manuf. of lumber. 

Vose George H., r 66, farmer, leases of George Pierson 95. 

Vose Laviiia, (West Candor) r 37, widow Alfred. 

Vose O. Sumner, r 11, farmer 75. 

Vose Othniel J., r 11, farmer. 

Vose Samuel, r loj, farmer 50. 

Vose Sylvenus, r 15, farmer 85, and- leases of E. S. Willet, 75. 

Vose Sylvester S., r 6, farmer 82. 

Wait George, r 13, farmer 104. 

Waggett John, r 13, miner. 

Walden Charles, r 17, laborer. 

Warner WiUiam W., r 48, farmer 100. 

Washburn Charles, (West Candor) r 36, laborer. 



igS TOWN OF TIOGA. 

Watkins David, r 13, farmer 113. 

WEEKS JOSHUA P., livery, Water, bds. Van Marter House. 

Weeks Stephen M., r 41, farmer 100. 

Weeks William W., r 38, carpenter. 

Wells Josiah, blacksmith, Main, h do. 

West Marshall C, contractor and builder, h Railroad. 

Westbrook Arthur, carpenter, bds. Main. 

"Westervelt Leslie, r 65, farmer. 

Wetzel Elmer, marble-cutter, bds. Academy. 

Whalen Edmund, (West Candor) r 36, laborer. 

Wheeler Frank E., emp. Spencer Creamery, bds. Liberty. 

Wheeler Frank R., laborer, h Maple ave. 

Wheeler Jesse, r 31, farmer 103. 

Wheeler William C, r 31, farmer. 

White George G., r 13, farmer 70. 

White Squire, r 49, laborer. 

Whitlock Ramer, r 42^, laborer. 

Wild Joseph, laborer. 

Willett Edward S., dealer in hides, and farmer 75, h Maple. 

Williams Ziba, laborer, h Main. 

Wilson Peter, r 41, laborer. 

Winchell James N., (Halsey Valley) r 59, farmer 56. 

Witherall Henry, r 47, farmer 40. 

Wood William H., wagon and sleigh manuf., Brooklyn, h Maple. 

Woodford Harriet, r 33, farmer 185. 

Woodruff George, r 61, farmer 31. 

Woodruffs. Delevan, r 28, farmer. 

WOODRUFF THOMAS, r 28, farmer 80. 



TIOGA. 

{For explanations, etc., see page 3, part second.) 

Ackley Nathan G., (Smithboro) prop, pool-room. 

Ahart Albert, (Strait's Corners) r 6, farmer with his father George. 

Ahart George, Strait's Corners) r 66, farmer 45. 

Allen George, (Smithboro) r 58, farmer 50. 

Anderson Ezra F., (Owego) r 12, farmer 125. 

ANDERSON JAMES M., (Owego) r 10, farmer 200, and in Candor 100. 

Anderson John J., (Owego) r 10, dentist. 

Anderson Willis D., (Owego) r 12, farmer, works on shares for his brother 

James M. 74. 
Andrus Peter J., (Smithboro) off r 61, farmer 77. 
Armstrong James R., (Smithboro) r 73, resident. 

Armstrong William, (Owego) r 12, farmer, works for his brother Fred so. 
Ayers Angelo, (Owego) r 1 2, farmer. 

SXARKEIV & WINTERS, Wholesale and Retail Drn^glgta, Owego. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 1 99 



Badger Celia, (Owego) r 18, widow Lucius, farm 100. 
Badger Luke, (Tioga Center) farmer. 
3adger Noah, (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 50. 
Bailey Eugene, (Smithboro) trackman. 
Bailey Lucy, (Smithboro) widow, resident. 
Ballou Charles, (Owego) r 28, laborer. 
Banfield Elmer, (Tioga Center) r 57, farm laborer. / 

Barber Ami W., (Halsey Valley) general merchant. 
Barden A. E., (Smithboro) carpenter. 
Barnes Charles E., (Owego) r 34, farmer 20, and in Pa. 80. 
Bartron Alonzo, (Smithboro) r 58, farmer with his father Moses. 
Bartron Moses, (Smithboro) r 58. farmer 75. 
IBates William, (Halsey Valley) r 21, prop, blacksmith shop. 
Bauer Adam, (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer 100. 
Bauer Christian, (Strait's Corners) r 17, farmer 130. 
Bauer George W., (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer. 
Bauer Martin, (Strait's Corners) r 5, tanner. 
BAUER MARTIN L., (Strait's Corners) (Ford & Bauer) 
Bauer Simon, (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer. 
Beddell Mary G., (Smithboro) widow Bently F., farm 100. 
Bedell Charles M., (Smithboro) r 40, farmer 50. 
Bedell William H., (Smithboro) r 40, farmer roo. 
Bellis WiUiam L., (Smithboro) station agt. Erie R. R. 
Bennett Sabrina, (Tioga Center) r 51, widow Chester, resident. 
Bentley Webster, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 
Best Charles, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 60. 
Best Jay, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer. 
Best Jay C., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 100. 
Best William H., (Tioga Center) r 58, farmer 55. 
Blake John, (Tioga Center) currier, h Main. 

BLAKE WILLIAM, (Tioga Center) drugs and medicines, Main, h do. 
Bogart Almon, (Owego) r 33, farmer 35, and works for Oliver P. Ford 60. 
Bogart David R., (Halsey Valley) carpenter. 

BOGART EUGENE D., (Owego) r 14, farmer with his father Henry. 
BOGART HENRY, (Owego) r 14, farmer 51. 
Bogart Peter V., (Smithboro) r 66, farmer 150. 
Bogart William, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer. 

BONHAM CHARLES H., (Tioga Center) general merchant, Main, h do. 
Bonham Morris, (Tioga Center) retired merchant, h Main. 
Booth Ann E., (Owego) r 48, resident. - 
: Bowman Ann, (Smithboro) r 73. widow Zebulon, resident. 
Bowman Charles, (Smithboro) r 73, teamster. 
Bowman Isaac, (Smithboro) resident. 

-Bowman John A., (Smithboro) rector of Emanuel Church. 
Bradley Andrew, (Smithboro) farm laborer. 
Bradley Edward (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 
Bradley Mariette Miss, (Smithboro) resident. 
Brearley John W., (Tioga Center) r 57, farmer 100. 
Briggs David, (Smithboro) r 69, farmer, works for George Eckert 60. 
Brink Amos, (Owego) r 25, farmer. 
Brink Edward, (Tioga Center) r 43, laborer. 
Brink Frederick, (Strait's Corners) r 19, farm laborer. 

SXARKEV & WINTERS, promptly fill Mall and Telephone Orders. 



200 TOWN or TIOGA. 



Brink George, (Halsey Valley) r 37, farmer 20. 
Brink Joseph, (Owego) r 33, farmer 90. 
Brink William, (Tioga Center) laborer. 
Brooks Benjamin J., (Tioga Center) r 52, farmer. 
Brooks Charles, (Tioga Center) off r 40, farmer 50. 
Brooks Cornelius, (Tioga Center) r 43, farmer 40. 
Brooks Frank, (Smithboro) off r 58, farmer for his father William. 
Brooks George H., (Tioga Center) r 53, farm laborer. 
Brooks Lot M., (Tioga Center) r 51, bridge carpenter. 
Brooks Nicholas, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer roo. 
Brooks WiUiam, (Tioga Center) farmer 100. 
Brown Alvah S., (Halsey Valley) shoemaker. 
Brown David L., (Tioga Center) drug clerk, bds. Main. 
Brown John B., (Owego) r 44, farmer 48. 

Brown V/illiam H., (Tioga Center) r 19, farmer, works for C. D. Hoff 76. 
Brundage Matthias, (Owego) off r 6, farmer 35. 
Buchanan James H., (Halsey Valley) farmer 58. 
Burlington Ephraim, (Owego) r 30, farmer 61. 
Burlington Hugh W., (Owego) r 30, farmer loo. 
BURLINGTON JOHN A., (Owego) r 8, farmer 125. 
Burlington Joseph, (Owego) r 8, farmer 58. 
Burnham Elizabeth Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. 
Burns Robert, (Owego) r 31, farmer 60. 
Burns Willie J., (Owego) r 31, farmer for his father Robert. 
Butler William, (Tioga Center) trackman. 

Cable Silas, (Owego) r 32, farmer, works for Mrs. John Taylor 100. 
Campbell Alexander, (Owego) r 48, laborer. 
Campbell Bert, (Owego) r 28, farmer. 

Campbell Fred, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer for L. B. West. 
Campbell Jacob, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farmer for L. B. West. 
Campbell Orlando, (Owego) off r 12, farmer. 

Canfield Alfred, (Smithboro) r 71, farmer, works for his father Amos 160. 
Canfield Amos, (Smithboro) r 71. farmer 170. 
Caple John, (Owego) r 7, farmer 50. 
CAPLE PHILIP, (Catatonk) r 7, farmer too. 
Carlisle William, (Tioga Center) r 22, laborer. 
Carmer Amasa, (Halsey Valley) off r 2, farmer 140. 
Cams John A., (Owego) r 1 2, farm laborer. 

Carpenter Charles E., (Smithboro) r 60, farmer with his father Peter R. 
Carpenter Jesse C, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer 200. 
vCarpenter Peter R., (Smithboro) r 60, farmer 75. ' 
/Casterline Stephen B., (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 
Casterline Warren, (Smithboro) r 60, farmer 50. 

Catlin Andrew R., (Tioga Center) off r 40, farmer, works for George Tru- 
man 150. 
Catlin Benjamin F., (Owego) r 25, farmer no. 
Cathn Charles, (Owego) r i8, farmer 123. 

Catlin Edmund S., (Tioga Center) r 43, carpenter, and farmer 51. 
Catlin Emeline, (Owego) r 32, widow Jonathan, farmer 42. 
CATLIN FRANK H., (Owego) r 45, produce dealer, and farmer. 
Catlin Frederick H., r 33, farmer 42. 
Catlin George, (Tioga Center) r 52, wagon-maker. 
Catlin Jacob, (Tioga Center) r 43, farmer 55. , 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 201 

CATLIN JAMES H., (Tioga Center) 143, physician, and farmer 50. 

Catlin Laverne, (Owego) r 33, farm laborer. 

Catlin Mary J., (Owego) r 33, widow Nathaniel, farmer 27. 

Catlin Mead, (Owego) r 47, emp. foundry. 

Catlin Nathan S., (Tioga Center) r 56, farmer 80. 

CATLIN ^fATHANIEL, (Owego) r 33, farmer 38. 

Catlin Sarah E. Mrs., (Owego) r 34, farm 20. 

Catlin William, (Owego) r 44, farm laborer. 

Catlin Willis K, (Owego) r 25, farmer with his father Benjamin F. 

Chamberlain Oscar C, (Owego) r 12, farmer. 

Chandler Horace, (Owego) r 12, laborer. 

Chew Clark, (Owego) r 11, farmer. 

Chew Guy, (Owego) r 11, farmer 167. 

Clune James, (Smithboro) r 61, farmer 50. 

Coburn & Van Norstran, (Tioga Center) (C. S. B. & G. Van N.) r 51, tin and 

iron roofing, and manuf. eve spouting. 
Coburn C. Sidney,(Tioga Center) (Coburn & Van Norstran) r si.ftlso tin shop. 
Coburn Eliza, (Tioga Center) r 5 i.widow Charles R., resident. 
Coffin Milton, (Owego) r 45, farmer. 

Cole Alfred, (Owego) r 31, farmer, leases of James Taylor 30. 
COLE AUSTIN R., (Smithboro) r 73, farmer 50. 
Cole Benjamin F., (Smithboro) r 71, farmer. 
, Cole Daniel H., (Tioga Center) r 51, retired farmer. 
Cole Frank, (Smithboro)offr 58, farmer 100. 
Cole Frank, (Smithboro) r 40, farm laborer. 
Cole Horace, (Owego) r 48, farmer. 
COLE SAMUEL K, (Smithboro) r 73, farmer 50. 
Cole William, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 
Coleman Isaac, (Tioga Center) r 52, bridge carpenter. 
Coleman Jackson, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer 116. 
Coleman James, (Tioga Center) r 52, carpenter. 
Coleman John P., (Tioga Center) r 41, farmer i8o. 
Coleman William D., (Tioga Center) r 52, carpenter. 

Congdon Harry,(Tioga Center) r36, farmer, leases of Mrs. Mary Munnohan 12. 
Conklin Elizabeth, (Owego) r 30,' widow John, resident. 
Conklin Sylvenas, (Owego) r 18, farmer, works on shares for Alexander 

Duncan no. 
Conway John, (Smithboro) r 55, farmer 50. 
Cook DeWitt C, (Halsey Valley) r 2, farmer 53. 
Cook Esther, (Strait's Corners) r 20, widow Samuel, farmer 100. 
Cook Florence, (Strait's Corners) r 20, farmer for his mother Esther. 
Coon Walter, (Strait's Corners) r 18, farmer 104. 
Coons Arthur, (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer with his father Johnson. 
Coons Daniel, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 100, 

Coons George B., (Tioga Center) r 58, farmer, works for Mrs. Perry Ward 75, 
Coons Hiram, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer. 

Coons John, (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer with his father Johnson. 
Coons Johnson, (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer 200. 
Coons Lemuel, (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer 50. 
Cooper Frank A., (Halsey Valley) r 2, farmer 50. 
Corsin William, (Owego) r 47, farm laborer. 
Cortright Alfred, (Tioga Center) r 43, laborer. 
Cortright Charles, (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 



202 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



"Cortright James, (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 
Cortright John, (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 

Cortright Richard, (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 
-Crandall Benjamin, (Tioga Center) off r 40 farmer 50. 

Crandall Daniel, (Smithboro) r 66, farmer, works for Mrs. M. Richards 117. 
Crawford Absalom, (Smithboro) laborer. 

Crawford Abram, (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 95. 
•Croft Michael, (Smithboro) trackman. 

Crum Henry, (Owego) r 28, resident. 
■Cunningham Daniel, (Owego) r 32, farmer 33. 
.Curkendoll Cornelius, (Smithboro) prop. Erie Hotel. 

CurkendoU Prudence Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. 

DAILY DANIEL, (Barton) r 64, farmer 380. 

DAILY EUGENE E., (Barton) r 64, farmer 150. 

DAILY FRED C, (Barton) r 64, dealer in agricultural implements, wag- 
ons, etc., and farmer 75. 

Davenport Adelbert, (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 50. 

Davenport Alvin M., (Smithboro) r 71, works on shares for Henry Light 73. 

Davenport Emmet J., (Smithboro) r 71, farmer with his father Alvin M. 

Davenport George, (Smithboro) r 71, section-hand. 

Davenport Henry, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 70. 

Davenport Jackson, (Smithboro) r 59, farmer 50. 

Davenport Judson, (Barton) r 64, farmer, works for James J. Green 73. 

Davis Albert J., (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 82. 

Davis Nathaniel W., (Owego) r 45, farmer 117. 

DAY GEORGE H., (Owego) r 12, farmer, works for Herbert Farnham 65. 

Day Marvin G., (Owego) r 29, farmer. 

Dean Franklin S., (Smithboro) resident. 

Decker Alexander D., (Tioga Center) Methodist minister, h Main. 

DeCaytor Ralph, (Owego) r 16, farm laborer. 

DeHart Sanda, (Tioga Center) laborer, h Main. 

DeHart Thomas, (Owego) r 45, laborer. 

Delano Charles, (Owego) r 28, mason. 

Delano Sarah, (Owego) r 28, widow Reuben, resident. 

Densmore Samuel, (Owego) r 26, farmer, works on shares for A. J. Good- 
rich 240. 

Deyo Charles, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer, works for Joseph DuBois 220. 

Deyo Chauncey (Owego) r 47, farmer. 

Deyo Elijah W., (Tioga Center) r 41, miller. 

Dinehart John, (Tioga Center) r 41, farm laborer. 

Dinehart Robert, (Smithboro) farm laborer. 

Doane Jane Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. 

Doane Leroy, (Smithboro) laborer. 

Doane Timothy, (Strait's Corners) r 3, prop, saw-mill and farmer. 

Doane William H., (Smithboro) r 59, farmer 50. 

T>orn David, (Halsey Valley) r 20, farmer 160. , 

Dorn Willis, (Halsey Valley) r 20, farmer for his father David. 

Dorwin Asa F., (Owego) r 46, farmer. 

DORWIN WILLIAM E., (Owego) (Dorwin, Rich & Stone) r 46, also rail- 
road contractor and farmer 235. 

DRAKE C. SIDNEY, (Smithboro) (W. J. Drake & Son) h Main. 

Drake Ezra P., (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 100. 
.Drake George P., (Smithboro) tinsmith. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 203 

DRAKE WILLIAM J., (Smithboro) (W. J.Drake & Son) . postmaster, h 

Main. 
DRAKE W. J. & SON, (Smithboro) (C. S. Drake) general merchants, 

hardware and tinshop and dealers in agt. imp., coal, lime, plaster and 

cement. Main. 
DuBois John E., (Tioga Center) lumberman, h in DuBois, Pa. 
DuBois Lucy, (Tioga Center) resident, h Main. 

DuBois William, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer, works for Charles Poole 234. 
DufF Alexander, (Strait's Corners) r 19, farmer 150. 
Dufif Andrew, (Strait's Corners) r 19, farmer. 

DuiF. Harry, (Strait's Corners) r 19, farmer with his father Alexander. 
DufF James, (Owego) r 25, farmer 90. 
DufF Millie, (Tioga Center) r 36, widow Moses, resident. 
DufF Robert H., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 206. 
DufF Thomas, (Strait's Corners) r 2, farmer 75. 
DUNCAN ALEXANDER, (Owego) r 29, farmer 150. 
Duncan James, (Owego) r 30, farmer 30. 

Earll David, (Tioga Center) r 49, retired physician and farmer 28. 
Easton Frances M., (Catatonk) r 9, resident. 
>EATON AMBROSE P., kwyer, office at Waverly. 
Eaton Daniel B., (Smithboro) cooper. 
Eckert George F., (Smithboro) r 71, manf eave-spouts. 
Eckert Maria J., (Smithboro) r 71, widow Alexander B., resident. 
Edwards Christopher, (Halsey Valley)- laborer. 
Edwards Samuel, (Owego) r 9, meat and grocery peddler. 
Ehle George, (Strait's Corners) r 3, laborer. 
Elliot Sarah A., (Smithboro) widow, resident. 
EVELIEN ALFRED, (Tioga Center) hay and potato dealer, and farmer 

in Candor 97, h Main. 
Evelien Christopher, (Tioga Center) farmer 100. 
Evlin John, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer. 

Emerson Charles, (Strait's Corners) ,r 4, farmer 160, and in Candor 40. 
Emerson David B., (Strait's Corners) r 24, farmer 96. 
Emerson Frank, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 108. 
Emerson George, (Strait's Corners^ off r 34, farmer 50. 
Emerson Lot S., (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer for his father William. 
Emerson Luther, (Halsey Valley) r 37, farmer. 
Emerson Mary, (Owego) r i8, widow Jonathan, resident. 
Emerson Robert H., (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer., 
EMERSON SAMUEL H., (Owego) r 24, farmer 200. 
Emerson Walter, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer. 
Emerson William, (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer 70. 
Erie Hotel, (Smithboro) Cornelius CurkendoU, prop. 
Estep Jacob, (Tioga Center) r 58, farmer 45. 

Estep Loren, (Tioga Center) r 51, blacksjnith and wagon-makerj h do. 
FARNHAM AGNES L., (Owego) off r 12, widow Frederick A., resident. 
FARNHAM ENOS S., (Owego) r 13, commercial traveler and farmer 80. 
FARNHAM GEORGE A., (Owego) r 12. farmer 65. 
PARNHAM HERBERT A., (Owego) off ri2, wool-carding, wood-turnmg, 

cider-mill and farmer 250. 
FARNHAM JOEL S., (Owego) off r 12, farmer 40. 
Farnham Orin, (Smithboro) blacksmith. 
Farnham Roland B., (Owego) r 12, farmer with his father George A. 



204 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Farnham Sylvester J., (Owego) off r 1 2, farmer 7. 

Fassett Alonzo, (Tioga Center) r 22, farmer 25. 

Fenderson Althier, (Tioga Center) r 41, widow Isaiah, resident. 

Fenderson Ely, (Tioga Center) r 41, carpenter. 

Finch Herbert, (Owego) r 48, farm laborer. 

Finn William H., (Owego) r 8, sup't Campbell farm 230. 

Finnegan Barney, (Owego) r 27, farmer 30. 

Fisher Frank, ^Strait's Corners) r 5, laborer. 

FOOTE JARED A., (Owego) r 13, farmer 13. 

Foote Jared H., (Owego) r 28, traveling salesman. 

Foote Lyman C, (Owego) r 28, farmer 12. 

FORD & BAUER, (Strait's Corners) (L. F. and M. L. B.) r, 5, contractors 

and builders. 
Ford Lucius, (Strait's Corners) (Ford & Bauer,) r 5. 
Ford Zera T., (Tioga Center) r 52, farm laborer. 
Forsyth W. Henry, (Halsey Valley) r 21, cooper. 
P'ranklin Burton B., CTioga Center) r 52, prop, grist-mill. 
Franklin Ransom J., (Tioga Center) r 52, miller. 
French Jeremiah, (Tioga Center) shoemaker, and farmer 13. 
Fox Henry, (Owego) r 47, carpenter. 
JFrister Noah, (Smithboro) r 70, farmer. 
Garber John, (Tioga Center) r 40, resident. 
Gardner Frederick, (Tioga Center) nurseryman, h Main. 
Gasier WiUiam H., (Tioga Center) rig, laborer. 
Gavin Michael, (Tioga Center) trackman. 
Geer Rezin J., (Strait's Corners) rig, farmer 
Genung Adam S., (Smithboro) wagon-maker. 
Gile Adelbert, (Tioga Center) r 24. farm laborer. 
Gile George, (Tioga Center) r 24, farmer for his father Leonard. 
Gile Joseph, (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer for his father William W. 
Gile Leonard, (Tioga Center) r 24, farmer 63. 
Gile Samuel, (Tioga Center) r 23, farmer 25. 
Gile William W., (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 100. 
Gile Willis, (Tioga Center) r 24, falrm laborer. 
Giles Cyrus, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 
Giles Daniel, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer. 
Giles George, (Tioga Center) r 22, laborer. 
Giles George, (Strait's Corners) r 3, invalid. 
Giles Rufus, (Strait's Corners) r 3, laborer. 
Giles Rufus D., (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer 60. 
Giles Sophia Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. f> 
Giles Waterman, (Halsey Valley) r 2?, farmer 100. 
Gilkey Martha M., (Halsey Valley) r i, widow Peter P., farm 60. 
Gilkey Samuel G., (Halsey Valley) off r 2, farmer 102. 
Gillson Nathan S., (Owego) r 34, farmer 38. 
Giltner William, (Barton) r 63, farmer 100. 
GOODENOUGH CHANCEY J., (Tioga Center) shoe-shop, and grape 

grower. Main, h do. 
GOODRICH ANDREW J., (Owego) r 48, farmer 1,150. 
GOODRICH CHARLES P., (Owego) r 12, farmer 44. 
Goodrich Charles T., (Owego) r 48, farmer 100. 
GOODRICH EPHRAIM, r 48, farmer 160. 
Goodrich George L,, (Owego) r 45, farmer 170. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 205 

GOODRICH HIRAM K, (Owego) r 47, farmer 85. 

Goodrich Jairus T., (Owego) r 45, farmer 27. 

Goodrich Louisa, (Owego) r 45, resident. 

GOODRICH NOAH, (Owego) r 48, justice of the peace, and farmer 25. 

Goodrich Sarah, (Owego) r 48, widow Herman, resident. 

Goodrich Sarah, (Owego) r 46, farm 12. 

GOODRICH STEPHEN S., (Owego) r 46, apiarist 15 swarms, poultry 

raiser, and farmer 60. 
Goodwin WiUiam H., (Halsey Valley) r i, farmer. 
Gould Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 21, farm laborer. 
Gould William, (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 50. 
Green James J., (Barton) r 64, farmer 73. 
Green James L., (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 50. 
Groat Ira, (Owego) r 25, farmer 70. 

Gulden Henry J., (Owego) r 30, works for A. J. Goodrich 230. 
Gulden John, (Owego) r 31, farmer. 

Guyles Charles, P., (Strait's Corners) r 32, farmer, works for James Taylor 50. 
Haddock Andrew J., (Tioga Center) r 41, farmer 96. 
Haddock Lamont, (Tioga Center) r 41, farmer with his father Andrew 
Halsey Valley House, (Halsey Valley) Mrs. Jane P. Higgins, prop. 
Hamilton Charles, (Tioga Center) r 22, carpenter. 
Hamilton George, (Halsey Valley) harness-maker. 
Hamilton Henry, (Halsey Valley) teamster. 
Hamilton Sarah Miss, (Smithboro) school teacher. 
Hamilton Thomas A., (Halsey Valley), farmer. 
Hanbury Adam, Jr., (Owego) r 6, farmer 105. 
Hanbury Ezra, (Strait's Corners) r 17, farmer 58. 
Hanmer George W., (Catatonk) r 9, telegrah operator. 
Hanna John, (Smithboro) trackman. 
Harding Adna, (Owego) r 13, farm laborer. 
Harding Alonzo, (Owego) r 9, farm laborer. 
Hardman John, (Owego) r 47, retired tanner. 
Hardman. John, (Owego) r 16, farm laborer. 
Hardman John F., (Owego) r 47, drug cleric. 
Hardman Patrick, (Owego) r 16, farmer 100. 
Hardy Lizzie, (Smithboro) r 68, widow John, farmer 60. 
Harford Edward, (Smithboro) r 54, farmer 70. 
Harlin Lott, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer. 
Harlin William, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 120. 
Heath Rebecca, (Halsey Valley) widow. 
Hermberger Adam, (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer 42. 
Hess WiUiam, (Strait's Corners) r 3, laborer. 
Hevland Douglass (Owego) r 28, cooper. 

Higbee Augusta, (Tioga Center) r 51, widow Forman S., resident. 
Higby James, (Tioga Center) laborer. 

Higgins Jane P. Mrs., (Halsey Valley) prop. Halsey Valley House. 
HILL ABNER G., (Tioga Center) r 51, justice of the peace and sawyer. 
Hill Ward, (Smithboro) r 71, trackman. 
Hoaghn Peter, (Owego) r 45 laborer. 
Hobler Peter, (Owego) r t8, farmer 50. 
Hodge Adelia, (Owego) r 29, widow Andrew C, resident. 
Hoff Cornelius, (Strait's Corners) r 19, farmer 75. 
Hoff Hiram, (Tioga Center) r 19, farmer 100. 



2o6 TOWN' OF TIQGA. 



HOLLENBECK CHARLES E., (Halsey VaUey) r zi, physician and sur- 
geon, and farmer 90. 

HoUister William H., (KTalsey Valley) r 22, farmer 95. 

HoUoway John, (Tioga Center) r 52, farm laborer. 

Holmes John C, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 23. 

Holt C. Edgar, (Tioga Center) r 152, farmer 96. 

Holt William, (Smithboro) r 73, farmer 70. 

Hoover Benjamin, (Smithboro) r66, farmer with his father Smith F. 

Hoover Smith F., (Smithboro) r 66, farmer 73. 

HORTON ABRAM, (Owfego) r 48, farmer 220. 

Horton Ada F, (Owego) r 28, farm 25. 

Horton Charles, (Owego) r 32, farmer go. 

Horton George M., (Smithboro) r 70, carpenter, and farmer 12. 

Horton Gurdon, (Owego) r 48, farmer 100. 

Horton Hannah, (Owego) r 48, widow George C, resident. 

Horton Isaac S.. (Owego) r 48, farmer 100. 

HORTON JOHN, (Owego) r 28, farmer 105. 

Horton Julia A., (Owego) r 28. widow Daniel B., farmer 25. 

HORTON THEODORE, (Owego) r 49, agricultural implements, and far- 
mer 100. 

Houghtaling William, (Owego) r 8, farmer 14. 

Housten George, (Owego) r 6, farmer 5. 

Howard Bishop, (Owego) r 6, farmer 25. 

Hoyt Fred D., (Halsey Valley) general merchant. 

HOYT IRA, (Halsey Valley) r 21, prop.- cooper shop, and farmer 95. 

Hoyt LaGrange, (Tioga Center) r 43, laborer. 

Hunt Theodore, (Catatnnk) r 9, farmer 34. 

Hurlburt Henry, (Owego) r 9, farm laborer. 

Hurlburt Perrine, (Owego) r 13, farmer. 

Hyatt John D., (Owego) r 14, retired farmer. 

Hyatt John M., (Owego) r 14, farmer r2i. 

Hyde Gordon, (Owego) r 12, cooper. 

Hyres Charles, (Halsey Valley) cooper. 

Ide Irwin N., (Smithboro) r 70, small fruits, and farmer 52. 

Ide Jacob A., (Smithboro) r 69, berry raiser, and farmer 25. 

Ingersoll Susan, (Tioga Center) widow Ebenezer, resident. 

JEWETT CHARLES F, (Catatonic) r 9, lumberman, and farmer 120. 

Jewett Harris, (Catatonk) r 9, farmer no. 

Jewett Henry, (Catatonk) r 9, farmer 87. 

Johnson Abigail Mrs., (Smithsboro) resident. 

Johnson Jay, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer 100. 

Johnson J. Edward, (Smithboro) undertaker and carpenter. 

Johnson Julius, (Barton) r 63, farmer 100. 

Johnson Peter M., (Tioga Center) r 53, carpenter, and farmer 18. 

Johnson Thomas, (Tioga Center) r 52, farmer, works for William Ransom 96- 

Johnson Warren, (Smithboro) r 55, carpenter. 

Johnson William H., (Smithboro) r 58, farmer loo. 

Johnson William W., (Tioga Center) farmer. 

Jones Anna, (Owego) r 28, widow Horton,, resident. 

Jones Horace, (Owego) r 28, farmer 60. 

Jones Levi J., (Owego) r 29, farmer, works for Mrs. Beers 60. 

STARKEir & WINTERS, triiolesale aad Retail Drngglsts, Owego. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 207- 



JONES STEPHEN W., (Owego; r 9, saw and grist-mill, turning shop,, 

plaining-mill, etc., and farmer 10. 
Kane John, (Smithboro) trackman. 

KEELER EGBERT, (Owego) r 29, miller for Shaw & Dean, h 2^. 
Kelly Johanna Mrs. (Smithboro) resident., 
Kelly John. (Tioga Center) watchman. 

Ketchum Ruth M., (Barton) r 63, widow Seymour, resident. 
Ketchum Seymour C, (Barton) r 63, farmer 50, and works for Daniel Daily 50. . 
King Adam, (Owego) r 6, farmer 185. 
King Charles C, (Barton) r 64, farmer 45. 
King Ezra, (Owego) r 7, farmer, works for his father Adam 53. 
King Frank, (Owego) r 17, farmer 50. 
King George, (Owego) farmer with his father Adam. 
Kinney Amzi, (Smithboro) resident. 
Kline Philip, (Tioga Center) r 51, tanner. 

KIRK CHARLES N., (Halsey Valley) blacksmith, and farmer 52. 
KNAPP FREDERICK J., (Smithboro) boots & shoes, barber, Main, h do. 
Knapp Sylvester, (Smithboro) physician. 
Kno^lton William, (Tioga Center) farm laborer. 
Krum Dillen, (Owego) r 14, farmer 25. 

KURKENDALL SAMUEL, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer 37. 
Lamberson Jedusen, (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 100. 
La Monte Allen D., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer with his father Seth D. 
La MONTE SETH D., Crtoga Center) r 36, horse farrier and farmer 60. 
Landers William, (Owego) r 25, farmer 100. 

Lane Charles, (Owego) r 31, farmer, works for Thomas Dundon 50. 
LATIMER JONATHAN C, (Tioga Center) assemblyman for Tioga Co.,. 
lumberman and farmer 1,300. 

Lawler John, (Owego) r 25, farmer with his brother Patrick no. 
Lawler Patrick, (Owego) r 25, farmer with his brother John 1 10. 
Leach Stephen W, (Owego) r 28, prop. "Leach's Mills" grist-mill. 
Leach William H., (Owego) r 28, farmer 30. 
Leonard Elbridge, (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 42. 
Leonard George, (Tioga Center) r 51,' mason and farmer 50. 
Levett Edward, (Tioga Center) laborer. 

Lewis David, (Owego) r 45, farmer 15 and works for Gilbert Truman 126. 
Lewis Martin V., (Owego) r 30, farmer 75. 
Light Mary, (Smithboro) r 71, widow Ely S., farm 160. 
Link Joseph, (Tioga Center) r 51. laborer. 
Lockwood Charles, (Tioga Center) peddler. 
""LoUis Mercy Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. 
'LoUis Samuel C, (Smithboro) general merchant. Main, h do. 
Longley James F., (Owego) resident. 
-Lounsberry Amos L., (Smithboro) r 71, farmer 100. 

/Lounsberry Benjamin, 2d, (Smithboro) r 71, farmer 109, and in Nichols 52., 
Xounsberry Robert L., (Smithboro) r 71, medical student. 
Lounsbury Amy F., (Tioga Center) r 36, school teacher. 
LOUNSBURY ANSON B., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer with his mother Mary. 
LOUNSBURY CLARK, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 32. 
LOUNSBURY CORNELIA H., (Tioga Center) r 36, schoolteacher. 
LOUNSBURY HARRIET A., (Tioga Center) r 36, school teacher. 
LOUNSBURY JOHN L., (Tioga Center) r 3.6, farmer with his mother Mary.. 

STARKEV & WINTERS, Druggists, Ovrego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



2oS TOWN OF TIOGA. 



LOUNSBURY MARY, (Tioga Center; r 36^ widow Lewis, farm 150. 
Lounsbury Sheldon, (Smithboro) r 61, apiarist 52 swarms and farmer 129. 
Loveless James J., (Smithboro) r 40, farmer 25. 
Lovell House, (Smithboro) O. E. Lovell, prop. 
.Lovell Oliver E., (Smithboro) prop. Lovell House. 
Lyce Parmelia P., (Smithboro) r 40, widow Lot, farmer 75. 
Luddington James A., (Smithboro) r 58, farmer 85. 
Luddington Joseph, (Smithboro) r 58, farmer. 
Lunger Alvin, (Owego) r 49, laborer. 
Lyons Marvin, (Tioga Center) r 52, laborer. 
Mack Anthony, (Smithboro) section boss. 
Madden John, (Smithboro) trackwalker. 
Madden Martin, (Smithboro) retired, 
Mallery George, (Smithboro) mason. 
-Mallery Henry, (Smithboro) mason. 
Manchester Henry H., (Owego) r 47, life insurance. 
Manley Frank N., (Halsey Valley) farmer. 
Manley George S., (Halsey Valley) farmer 50. 
Mapes Lewis, (Owego) r 28, blacksmith, bds. do. 
Martin Fred, (Tioga Center) general merchant. Main, h do. 
Martin Jay H., (Tioga Center) r 51, retired merchant, and fanner 113. 
Mastin Julia Mrs., (Smithboro) resident. 

MATTESON FAYETTE A., (Smithboro) r 71, .Baptist cletgj^an. 
Matteson Frank, (Smithboro) r 71, divinity student. 
Matteson George M., (Tioga Center) r 53, laborer. 
McBride John, (Tioga Center) tanner, Main. 
McCorraick Elias, (Smithboro) laborer. 
McDermott Michael, (Catatonk) r 9, fireman N. T. Co. 
McDonald Charles H., (Smithboro) r 68, physician and surgeon. 
McDonald Edward, (Tioga Center) trackman. 
McDuffee Nathaniel J., (S;nithboro) r 68, farmer. 
McNeal Jane, (Smithboro) r 70, widow George, resident. 

McNeil , (Smithboro) r 70, works for L. B. Pearsall 160. 

McWhorter DeForest, (Tioga Center) clerk, bds. i Main. 

MEAD JAMES R., (Owego) r 25, farmer 100. 

Meder Paul, (Owego) r 7, farmer 25. 

Meeker Jane, (Smithboro) r 53, resident. 

Merritt John, (Tioga Center) r 52, laborer. 

Mespell Joshua, (Owego) r 6, farmer 40. 

Mespell Willis, (Owego) r 6, farmer. 

.Middaugh Jacob, (Owego) r 13, resident. 

Middaugh Lorenzo T., (Smithboro) r 73, carpenter, and farmer. 

Miller C. Henry, (Smithboro) r 53, farmer 400, 

Miller George, (Tioga Center) tanner. 

Miller Julia A., (Smithboro) r 53, widow Henry, resident. 

Morris Caroline D., (Tioga Center) widow Almon, h Main. 

Mortz George, (Tioga Center) tanner, bds. Main. 

Mortz William, (Tioga Center) tanner, bds. Main. 

Mulligan Thomas, (Owego) r 11, farmer 42. 

Mulock Chancy, (Smithboro) farmer. 

'Mulock David, (Smithboro) farmer. 

Mulock Edwin, (Smithboro) r 71, carpenter. 

Munnahun Charles, (Tioga Center) r 52, farm laborer. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 209 



Munnahun Mary, (Tioga Center) r 36, widow Martin, farm 12. 

Munson Frederick, (Owego) r 28, farmer. 

Munson Heman, (Owego) r 28, farmer. 

Myers Alford, (Owego) r 33, farmer, leases of Charles Catlin 40. 

Nelson George, (Owego) r 32, farmer. 

Nelson James J., (Owego) r 12, farmer 20. 

Nelson Winslow, (Owego) r 26, farmer 50. 

Nichols Addie R. Mrs., (Smithboro) r 58, resi^dent. 

Northrop James B., (Tioga Center) r 57, farmer, works for Dr. J. Wilson 200. 

Oakley Joshua, (Smithboro) r 59, farmer 50. 

O'Connor James, (Owego) r 30, invalid. 

O'Connor John, (Owego) r 30, farmer. 

O'Connor Joseph, (Owego) r 30, gardener. 

O'Hara John, (Smithboro) trackman. 

Ohart Moses, (Tioga Center) prop. Tioga Center Hotel, Main. 

O'Hern William, (Smithboro) trackman. 

Osborn Joseph, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer 50. 

Ott Frank U., (Owego) r 14, farmer for his father Nicholas. 

Ott George D., (Owego) r 14, farmer for his father Nicholas. 

Ott Nicholas, (Owego) r 14, farmer 159. 

Ott Sophia, (Owego), r 14, widow Nicholas, Sr., resident. 

Pace John, (Tioga Center) r 43, trackman. 

Park Dunham, (Barton) r. 65, farmer 200. 

Parmentier FrankUn M., (Owego) r 28, butcher. 

Pearsall John C, (Smithboro) r 71, carpenter. 

Pease' William (Owego) r 14, farmer, leases Mrs. Sisson 20. 

Pelham Charles (Owego) r 44, carpenter and farmer. 

PEMBLETON JOHN E , (Tioga Center) lumberman, farmer 350 and wild 

land '3 1 8. 
Pepper Jackson S., (Smithboro) r 60, farmer 50. 

Pepper John ¥., (Smithboro) r 68, grain and potato dealer, and farmer roo. 
PERRY ALBERT A., (Smithboro) carpenter and joiner. 
'Perry Leonard, (Smithboro) farmer 45, h Main. 
Perry Milo M., (Smithboro) hostler. 
Piche Gisper Mrs , (Tioga Center) r 51, resident. 
Pickering Joseph, (Smithboro) resident. 
Pilkington Charles (Catatonk) r 9, telegraph operator. 
Piatt Houstop, (Smithboro) r 71, farmer 10. 
Poole Charles F., (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer 234. 
Poole Edward V., (Smithboro) retired merchant. 
Poole Murray, (Smithboro) lawyer. 

Post Albert VV., (Tioga Center) r 51, physician and surgeon, and farmer 160, 
Pressure George, (Tioga Center) laborer. 
Preston Frederick, (Owego) r 48, farm laborer. 
Preston Louis, (Owego) r 48, farmer, works for A. J. Goodrich 100. 
Preston Silas, (Owego) r 48, farmer. 
Price John, (Owego) r 26, farm laborer. 
Pudbuagh John, (Tioga Center) r 23, farm laborer. 
Quirin Charles M., (J. G. Quirin & Co.) (Tioga Center) h Main. 
Quirin Edward, (Tioga Center) r 49, tanner. 
Quirin Emil J. F, (Tioga Center) tanner, h Main. 
Quirin Em'il F., (J. G. Quirin & Co.) (Tioga Center) h Main. 
Quirin George L. A., (Tioga Center) tanner. Main. 

14 



2IO TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Quirin J. G. & Co., (W. C. A., E. P. and C. H. N. Quirin) (Tioga Center) 

tanners, Main. 
Quirin John G., (J. G. Quirin & Co.) (Tioga Center) also farmer 137, h Main. 
Quirin William, (Tioga Center) tanner, h Main. 
Quirin William C. A., (J. G. Quirin & Co.) (Tioga Center) h Main. 
Ragan Daniel, (Owego) r 9, laborer. 

Randall Walter C, (Smithboro) justice of the peace and farmer. 
Ransom Warren W., (Tioga Cehter) r 49, farmer 130. 
RAUCH GEORGE, (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer, 117. 
Rauch Henry E., (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer. 
Rauch John M.^ (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer. 
Rauch Peter A., (Strait's Corners) r 5, farmer. 
Rauch Wesley, (Owego) r 16, farmer, works for Rev. S. Evans 115. 
Reed Maria, (Catatonk) r 9, widow George, house-keeper. 
Rice Chauncey, (Owego) r t8, farmer, leases of James Anderson 125. 
Rice Rachel^ (Owego) r 9, widow Merrick, resident. 
'Richards Benjamin, (Smithboro) r 68, farmer 168. 
Richards Eugene, (Tioga Center) clerk, bds. Main. 
Rider Amos L., (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 96. 
Rider Dana B., (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer 90. 
Rider David, (Strait's Corners) r 24, farmer 100. 
Rider Elethere, (Strait's Corners) r 19, resident. 
Rider George T., (Halsey Valley), bartender Halsey Valley House. 
Rider Isaac, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer 80. 
Rider Jacob S., (Tioga Center) r 23, thresher and farmer 105. 
Rider Seymour, (Halsey Valley) 22, farmer with his father Dana B. 
Rider Stephen J., (Strait's Corners) r 19, farmer 98. 
Rider William, (Halsey Valley) mason. 
Ring Jesse B., (Owego) oflf r 12, resident. 
Ring Theron S., (Owego) ofFr 12, farmer. 
Roberts James A., (Smithboro) painter. 
Robinson Duncan, (Owego) r 26, farm laborer. 
Robinson Joel, (Owego) r 45, farmer, works for Henry Young 150. 
Romine Hannah, (Owego) r 47, widow Samuel, resident. 
Romine William, (Owego) r 47, tailor. 

Root Oris L., (Halsey Valley) billiard and pool room and farmer in Barton 36. 
Ross John W., (Smithboro) r 58, farmer 300. 
Rousier Charles, (Owego) r 8, farmer 30. , 

Rumsey James, (Halsey Valley) r i, farmer, works for Fred Taylor 150. 
Russell Holmes W., (Owego) r 14, farmer 160. 
Sanderson P. W. N., (Tioga Center) station and express agt. and telegraph 

op. Erie R. R., h Main. 
Sargent Alvin, (Smithboro) carpenter. 
Schoonover Ambrose L., (Barton) r 73, farmer 117. 
Schoonover Eliza, (Tioga Center) r 53, widow Smith, farm 16. 
Schoonover Eugene S,., (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer with his father Nicholas. 
Schoonover Jackson J. F., (Tioga Center) 35, farmer 63. 
Schoonover James M., (Tioga Center) r 35, lumberman. 
Schoonover Jerome J., (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer with his father Nicholas. 
Schoonover Nicholas, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer 200. 
Schoonover Nicholas M., (Barton) r 73, resident. 
Schoonover Simeon L., (Barton) r 73, farmer 170. 
Scott Wilson, (Owego) r 48, gardener. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 211 



Searles Martha, (Owego) r 28, widow John, farmer 80. 
.Severn George W., (Smithboro) resident. 
Sexsmith Thomas, (Tioga Center) section foreman. 
Sharp Samuel, (Tioga Center) r 41, farm laborer. 
.Sharp WiUiam, (Smithboro) r 73, farmer 65. 
SHAW W. HULSE, (Owego) r 28, prest. Tioga Co. Agr'l Society, breeder 

of Holstein cattle and fine horses, and farmer 133. 
Sherman John, (Owego) r 14, farmer 5. 
Sherwood WiUiam, (Tioga Center) laborer, h Main. 
SHIFFER GEORGE B,, (Owego) r 13, farmer. 
Shipman George, (Halsey Valley) laborer. 
Signor Charles, (Tioga Center) r 36, prop, saw mill and farmer with his son 

George H. 100. 
Signor George H., (Tioga Center) r 36, wagon-maker and farmer 10, and 

with his father Charles 100. 
Sly John M., (Smithboro) resident. 
Smith & Truesdail, (Owego) (H. K. Smith & George Truesdajl) r44, props. 

of hay press and threshing machine. 
Smith Cornelius D., (Tioga Center) r 51, farmer 100. 
Smith David T., (Tioga Center) r 50, farmer 100. 
Smith Frank, (Tioga Center) r 51, farmer 87. 
Smith George, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 240. 
Smith George A., (Owego) r 12, farm laborer. 

•Smith Harry J., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer with his father George. 
Smith Horace K.,. (Tioga Center) r 36, agrl. implements and farmer 50. 
Smith James E., (Smithboro) r 40, steam thresher and farmer 150. 
Smith John E., (Smithboro) r 40, farmer 125. 

Smith John J., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer with his father Horace K. 
Smith John Y., (Smithboro) r 40, resident. 
Smith Losey M., (Smithboro) r 68, farmer 100. 
Smith Michael, (Smithboro) farmer 125. 
Smith Spencer E., (Owego) r 34, farmer 35. 
Snyder Adam, (Strait's Corners) r 17, farmer 113. 
Snyder Charles, (Owego) r 6, carpenter. 
Snyder Frank, (Strait's Corners) r 5, laborer. 
Snyder George, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farm laborer. 
Snyder Henry A., (Strait's Corners) r 5, prop, saw-mill, and farmer 57. 
Snyder Nicholas, (Owego) r 6, farmer 100. 
Snyder Nicholas N., (Strait's Corners) r 4, carpenter. 
Snyder Peter, (Owego) r 14, laborer. 

Snyder Samuel, (Owego) r 6, farmer with his father Nicholas. 
Southwick xMary J. Mrs., (Halsey Valley) general merchant. 
Speer Irwin L., (Strait's Corners) r 24, farm laborer. 
Speer Tunis, (Strait's Corners) r 24, farmer 32. 
Spencer Albert O., (Tioga Center) r 36, laborer. 
;Spei)cer Alvah, (Owego) off r 34, farmer 122. 
Spencer Ambrose G., (Owego) r 31, farmer. 
Spencer Charles (Owego) r 34, farmer 76. 
Spencer Charles, (Owego) r 25, farmer 50. 
Spencer Elijah C, (Tioga Center) mail messenger. 
Spencer John, (Owego) off r 34, farmer. 
Spendley Araminta, (Nichols) r 53 widow Anderson. 
Spendley Robert H., (Nichols) r 53, farmer 100. 



212 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Spicer Harry, (Halsey Valley) r 22, laborer. 

Springstead Alfred, (Halsey Valley), r 37, farmer for J. C. Latimer. 

Springstead Daniel P., (Tioga Center) r 51, farm laborer. 

Starks James, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer 260. 

Starks William, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farmer for his father James. 

STEELE FRED C, (Owego) farmer 65. 

Steele James, (Owego) r 31, farmer ziz. 

STEELE JANE Miss, (Smithboro) resident. 
-Sterling John, (Smithboro) laborer. 

Stetler Charles J., (Tioga Center) r 35, farmer 126. 

Stetler Irving F., (Tioga Center) r 35, school teacher. 

Stetler Stokes, (Tioga Center) r 35, farmer. 

Stetler William, (Tioga Center) r 35, farmer with his father Stokes. 

Steward John, (Smithboro) off r 66, farmer 100. 

Stewart Delos, (Owego) off r 12, mason. 

STEWART EDWARD, (Owego) off r 12, mason and farmer. 

STEWART EMILY A., (Owego) off r iz, dressmaker. 

STILES FRED H., (Stiles & Sibley) (Owego) r 47, farmer. 

STILES GEORGE B., (Owego) r 46, farmer. 
^STILES RHODA, (Owego) r 46, widow Benjamin C, farmer 15. 
-Stimpson Charles, (Smithboro) cooper. 

Stimson Henry (Smithboro) station agent Southern Central R. R. 

Stone. Edward F., (Tioga Center) drug clerk. 

Stone William, (Owego) r 28, laborer. 
^STOWELL CORNELL S., (Smithboro) r 73, lumberman, and farmer 236.. 

Strait Alvinza, (Strait's Corners) r 4, postmaster and farmer. 

Strait Aretus A., (Strait's Corners) r 4, hay-dealer and farmer 66. 

Streibel Peter, (Tioga Center) tanner. 

Stutler Andrew, (Tioga Center) r 36, laborer. 

Sullivan Thomas, (Smithboro) section boss. 

Swartwood Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 37, farmer. 

Swartwood Edwin, (Owego) r 30, farmer 100. 

Swartwood Eugene, (Owego) r 30, farmer. 

Swartwood Frank, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farm laborer. 

Taylor Addison J., (Owego) r 44, farmer 50. 

Taylor Charles D., (Owego) r 29, fatmer. 

Taylor Cynthia, (Owego) r 32, widow John T., farmer 113. 

Taylor Frank E., (Owego) r 32, farmer with his mother Cynthia. 

Taylor John E., (Owego) r 26, farmer, leases of Abram Vermilyea 50^ 

Taylor John H., (Owego) r 47, painter. 

Taylor John M., (Owego) r 28, farmer 22. 

Taylor John T., (Owego) farmer, works for Abram Vermilyea 50. 

Taylor Norman, (Owego) r 32, farmer 50. 

Taylor Rodney, (Smithboro) r 58, farmer 50. 

Tewilleger Jay, (Strait's Corners) r 4, farm laborer. 

Thomas David B., (Owego) r 13, farmer 53. 

Thomas Delos H., (Owego) r 13, farmer with his father David B.. 

Thomas Frank, (Owego) r 13, keeper at Binghamton asylum. 

Thomas George, (Halsey Valley) r 2, farmer 27. 

Thomas John D;, (Smithboro) r 7t, millwright, and farmer 4. 

Thorn Warren, (Owego) r 31, farmer. 

Tiffany Austin, (Owego) r 28, farmer 6^. ' 

Tilden Alanson Rev., (Tioga Center) pastor Baptist church. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 213 



Tioga Center Hotel, (Tioga Center) Moses Ohart, prop., Main. 

Toff William, (Tioga Center; r 35, laborer. 

TOFT ISAAC, (Owego) r 18, farmer 153. 
Towner Andrew J., (Smithboro) r 60, farmer 50. 

Traynor Mary, (Owego) r 48, widow Edward. 

TRIBE CHARLES H., (Tioga Center) carpenter and joiner, and prop, saw 
and plaining-mill, Railroad cor. Alden. 

Tribe Frank B., (Tioga Center) r 52, farmer 50. 

Tribe James P., (Halsey Valley) r 38, farmer 104. 
Tribe John, (Halsey Valley) off r 2, farmer 56. 

Tripp Seymour, (Smithboro) jeweler at Nichols. 

Trowbridge E. Owen, (Smithboro) school teacher. 

Truesdail David S., (Owego) r 44, farmer 57. 

Truesdail Frank J., (Owego) r 44, farmer. 

Truesdail George, (Owego) (Smith & Truesdail) r 44, thresher. 

Truesdail Jeremiah, (Owego) r 44, farmer 60. 

Truesdail John, (Tioga Center) r 43, laborer. 

Truesdail William, (Owego) r 44, carpenter, and farmer 36. 

Truesdell Alvin, (Owego) r 47, laborer. 

Tuff Sarah, (Tioga Center) r 41, widow Thomas, resident. 

Turner Cornelius, (Tioga Center) trackman. 

Turner Peter, (Strait's Corners) r 3, justice of the peace, and farmer 800. 

Tuthill Joseph M.,* (Smithboro) groceries, provisions and drugs, Main. 

Tyler Luzerne, (Halsey Valley) invahd. 

Ulrick George, (Owego) r 7, farmer for Adam King. 

Ulrick John, (Owego) r 6, farmer 150. 

Ulrick John, Jr., (Owe;go) r 15, farmer 7. 

Valentine Louisa, (Strait's Corners) r 8, resident. 

Van Dermark John, (Smithboro) r 40, farmer 50. 

Van Dermark Mary, (Smithboro) r 40, widow Henry, resident. 

Van Dermark Selinda, (Smithboro) r 73, widow George, farmer 50. 

Van Duser P'rank, (Catatonk) r 9, farm laborer. 

VAN DUSER GILBERT, (Catatonk) r 9, laborer. 

Van Duser Henry, (Catatonk) r 9, laborer. 

Van Etten Alonzo, (Smithboro) r 58, farm laborer. 

Van Etten Lorenzo, (Halsey Valley), r 37, farmer 50. 

Van Leven Elias, (Strait's Corners) r 4, butcher and farmer 32, and in 
Candor 52. 

Van Luven John B., (Halsey Valley) stock-buyer and farmer. 

Van Norstran Arthur G., (Smithboro) r 55, farmer for his father James. 

Van Norstran Charles C, (Tioga Center) r 53, farmer 125. 

Van Norstran George, (Tioga Center) (Coburn & Van Norstran) r 51, also 
farmer 16. 

Van Norstran James, (Tioga Center) r 58, farmer 30. 
CVan Norstran James, (Smithboro) r 55, farmer 30. 

Van Riper George W., (Halsey Valley) r 38, farmer 90. 

Van Tyl Anthony W., (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer.works for Henry Wig- 
gins 40. 

Vincent Colvin, (Barton) r 65, farmer 50. 

Vosburgh Henry P., (Halsey Valley) physician and surgeon, and farmer 285. 

Vroman Moses, (Owego) r 30, farm laborer. 

Walden Joseph, (Halsey Valley) r 21, laborer. 

Wallace David B., (Owego) r 48, farmer for his mother Rachel. 



214 TOWN OF TIOGA. 



Wallace Rachel, (Owego) r 48, widow David, farm 140. 
• Wallace William, (Tioga Center) r 40, farmer 100. 
Wallis Harry C, (Owego) r 48, farmer. 

Walworth Seymour E,, (Ow;ego) M. E. clergyman and farmer 17. 
Ward Lewis J., (Smithboroj r 70, farmerj works for Judson Winters 260. 
Ward Perry C., (Tioga Center) r 41, carpenter and farmer 40. 
Waterman Oren, (Owego) r 48, farmer, works on shares for Lottie A. Hor- 

ton 100. 
WATERMAN WILLIAM P., (Tioga Center) r 54, farmer, works for C. 

H. Van Norstran 50. 
Watkins Charles H., (Catatonk) r 9, engineer N. T. Co. 
Watkins Elizabeth Mrs., (Tioga Center) r 53, resident. 
Watkins John, (Smithboro) stone mason. 
Watkins Thomas, (Smithboro) r 54, farmer 50. 
Watkins William H., (Tioga Center) meat market in Binghamton. 
Weber George, (Ow'ego) r 7, farmer 63. 
Weber Philip, (Owego) r 7, farmer. 

Weber Philip, Jr., (Owego) r 7, carpenter and farmer 55. 
Weiss Sebastian, (Owego) r 16, farmer 100. 
West Andrew L., (Halsey Valley) r i, farmer 140. 
West Charles, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer. 
West Grant M., (Halsey Valley) r 21, postmaster and assistant to his father 

Luther B. 
WEST LUTHER B., (Halsey Valley) r 21, retired merchant^ lumberman,. 

dairyman and farmer 530, and in Newark Valley 181. 
Wheeler John N., (Strait's Corners) r 4, general merchant. 
Whitcomb Benjamin R., (Smithboro) r 68, farmer 55. 
Whitcomb John M., (Smithboro) r 59, farmer 50. 
White Dudley, (Owego) farmer 35. 

White Jerome, (Smithboro) r 54, farmer, works on shares for Henry Miller 50. 
White Leon, (Halsey Valley) physician and surgeon. 
White Lewis, (Smithboro) r 73, farmer 95. 
White Lorenzo, (Catatonk) r 9, laboror. 
Whipple Fernando, (Tioga Center) r 50, farmer 50. 
Whitley Emi]y, (Owego) r-i3. widow Joel S., farm 141. 
Whitmarsh Abratji, (Owego) r 28, farmer 74. 
WHITMARSH AVERY, (Owego) r 9, sawyer and farmer 5. 
Whitmarsh Harvey, (Owego) r 28, sawyer. 
Whitmarsh Herrick, (Tioga Center) r 52, farmer. 
Whitmarsh Sidney D.,, (Tioga Center) r 52, farm laborer. 
Whitney Isaac N., (Owego) r 33, farm laborer. 
Wiggins Eliza, (Tioga Center) widow George. 
Wiggins Henry, (Tioga Center) r 36, farmer 40. 
Wiggins Silas, (Tioga Center) r 36, blacksmith, h do. 
Wilbur Frederick, (Halsey Valley) laborer. 
Williams Charles, (Tioga Center) off r 57, farm laborer. 
Willis Sylvester, (Halsey Valley) r 22, farmer 75. 
Willmott George W., (Owego) r 14, farmer 133. 
WILLMOTT JAMES R., (Owego) r 28, prop, saw and plaster-mill, and 

ice-dealer. 
Wilson William, (Owego) r 34, resident. 
Winfield James, (Owego) r 28, retired farmer. 
Winner James F., (Owego) r 47, cartman. 



TOWN OF TIOGA. 215; 



Winter Byron L., (Tioga Center) law student, bds. Main. 

Winters Harry B., (Tioga Center) clerk, bds. Main. 

Winters Joseph, (Tioga Center) postmaster and grocery, and farmer 159,. 

h Main. 
Winters Thomas, (Tioga Center) laborer. 
Wolcott George B., (Smithboro) r 58, farmer 60. 
Wood Edward, (Tioga Center) r 53, laborer. 
Wood Elmer, (Tioga Center) r 53, farm laborer. 
Wood George, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer 50. 
Wood James, (Strait's Corners) farmer 50. 
Wood Joseph, (Strait's Corners) r 3, farmer 100. 
Wood Spencer (Halsey Valley) r 39, farmer 90. 
Woodburn Clarence, (Tioga Center) r 36, laborer. 
Woodburn David P., (Tioga Center) farmer. 
Woodburn Henry Q., (Tioga Center) laborer. 
Woodcox Richard, (Tioga Center) trackman, h Main. 
Wright William, (Tioga Center) stone mason and carpenter. 
Yaples Charles, (Owego) r 31, carpenter. 
Yearsley Frank, (Smithboro) r 54, farmer with his father John. 
Yearsley John, (Smithboro) r 54, farmer, works for Henry Miller 250. 
Yontz Chloe, (Smithboro) r 71, widow John, resident. 
Young Franklin H., (Owego) r 48, farmer with his father Henry. 
Young Henry, (Owego), r 48, speculator, dairy 14 cows and farmer 200. 
Zorn Charles, (Owego) r 14, farmer 27. 
Zorn Christopher, (Owego) r 17, farmer 15. 
Zorn George, (Owego) r 17, farmer 39. 
Zorn Jacob, (Owego) r 14, farmer 27. 



<M34e) 




2l6 



TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



rTHEn 







ESTilBLISHEn NDVEMBER 23j IBnO, 



©HE # Only # DsMOci^ft^iG # gAPsr^ 



PUBLISHED IN TIOGA COUNTY. 



A GOOD ADVERTISING MEDIUM. 



)(2[rr)ple • ^0pi(as • CJer)! • or) • ©/ipplicetfi®!). 



™^FiNest Job Printing 



Neatly and Promptly Done, and at liow Prices. 



SXARKEY & WINTERS, Wbolesale and Ketail Urugglsts, O-wego, 



TIOGA COUNTY 



CL/SSIFIED BUSipSS DIREGTOHY 



The towns are alphabetically arranged at the end of the line, under the business classifica- 
tions. The postoffice address of each individual or firm follows after the name, except in 
cases where the name of theT>osto.ffioe and the township is the same. In the viUages the name 
of the street is generally given, and precedes that of the postofBoe. The classifloation of 
farmers is omitted in this hat, as they can readily be found in the general Ust, by noting the 
figures at the end of the line, which indicate the number of acres OT\>ned or leased by each. 
Boad numbers signify the same as in the general list. 



Ageuts Railroad. 

See Riilroad Agents. 

Agents Ticket. 

See Kailroad Agents. 

Agricultural Implements. 

{See also Hardware, also General Merchants.) 
COLEMAN CHARLES H., (dealer) Lock- 
wood, Barton 
Guyer H. E., Broad cor. Clarli st., Wa- 

verly, " 

SnefEn & Scott, Broad st., Waverly, " 

BRAINaRD CHARLES B., Berkshire 

Higgins John, r 18, SpeedsviUe, Tomp. 

Co., 
Jndd John N.. r 6, " 

WITTER E. A. & CO., " 

■Courtright Henry A., (dealer) West 

Newark, Candor 

HART LEWIS A., (dealer) Main st., 
HEATH HENRY D., (dealer) Main St., " 
Tan Debogail Peter, Main st., " 

Woodford E. Jerome, (dealer) r 62, " 

GAGER ULYSSES S., r 45. (Champion 

drills) Newark Valley 

Kenyon Charles E., r 53, " 

ADAMS S. B., r 5, (harvesters) Hoopers' 

Valley, Nichols 

EDSALL JOHN R., fdealer) Main st., " 
OERE, TRUMAN, PLATT & CO., (manuf.) 

Central ave., Owego 

Like George W., r 106, Apalachin, " 



Pitcher Leroy H., r 65, Owego 

THOMAS MOSES H., (dealer) 6i Tem- 
ple St., " 
Wood Charles E., r 40, Elemingville, " 
MILLER WILLIAM E.. Main at., Richford 
THELEMAN HIRAM W.„ " 
Brooks Daniel C, Maple ave., Spencer 
DAVIS JEROME S., Cedar St., " 
DAY JOHN & SON, Main St., " 
HOKTON THEODORE, r 49. Owego st., 

Tioga 
Smith Horace K., r 36, Tioga Center, " 



Apiarists. 



Barton 



Andre John, Lockwood, 
BESEMER DANIEL V., North Barton, 
Church Eranklin.L., r 46, Lockwood, 

CRANS FRANK, Lockwood, " 

Edgcomb George G., Pactoryville, " 

Hanford Clark, Factory ville, " 

Holt Charles B., r 53, " 

Lent W. Nelson, Lincoln St., Waverly, '■ 

MANNING ELI D., HalseyVaUey, , " 
SHIPMAN BUPUS T., r 43, Waverly, 

Walker Loren A., Waverly, " 
Clark Sanford H., r 36, " Berkshire 

Houk Daniel, Wilson Creek, r 35, " 

Scott Charles & Edward P., r 22 cor. 41, " 

Shepard James, r 3. " 
WILLIAMS & WALDO, 

WUljams George, ' " 

Anderson Joel, r 125, Owego, Candor 

Houok Israel, r 95, " 



STA.RKE;ir ic 'WEHVEltS, promptly fill IHall and Telephone Orders. 



2l8 TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



s:s'Z'.^5XjIs:exss x£T isss. 



THE FARMERS' FAVORITE I 



TilE Ow^EGO Times 



The largest and best weekly paper published in Tioga county, and con- 
tains more reading matter. The Times is the paper" for the Farmer, 
Mechanic, Merchant, Laboring Man, in fact, for all classes to take. Cor- 
respondence from every Town in the County. The Times has the largest 
circulation by many hundreds of any paper published in Tioga county,, 
consequently it is the Best Advertising Medium. 

«SE>ivr> i?oie A. ® A.adCE»rvEj core's". 



-iFOia- 



-«e FINB JOB IVORK s^ 

Of all kinds, from the smallest Visiting Card to the Mammoth Poster, go- 
to the Times Office. Our Jobbing Facilities are unequaled 
in the Southern Tier. 



Book-binding, in all its branches, neatly, cheaply and promptly done. 
Paper Ruling in every conceivable style and form. Especial attention 
given to, and best facilities for, manufacturing Blank Books, Ledgers, 
Hotel Registers, &c. Pamphlets, Magazines and Old Books skillfully 
and neatly rebound. Persons wishing anything pertaining to this business- 
will do well to call at the Owego Times Bindery. 

WM. SMYTH & SON, Propietors. 

193 Main St., opposite Lake St., Owegp, Tioga Co., N. Y 



APIARISTS— BLACKSMITHS AND HORSESHOERS. 



219' 



HOFTALING JOHN, E. B. ave. Candor 

HASTEN GEOEGE W., " 

MOBEY AECHIE E., r 71, " 

Oeburn William, r 18, SpsedBville, " 

EOE EUGENE ¥., r 6, " 

Eoe WiUiam F., r 25, 
Taylor WiUiam J., r 86, Weltonville, 
Burohard Harvey J., r 9, Ketohumvllle, 

Newark Valley 
Councilman Edwin W., r 35, " 

STEVENS HENEY W., r 42, 
DEAN NATHA.N S., r 1, Nichols 

HEEEICK WILLIAk. r 1, " 

Lane David J., r 17, . " 

Matthews Hiram P., r 38, " 

Sherwood Wesley W;, r 10, " 

' WATEEMAN ALONZO C, r 8, 
WHITE WILLIAM W., r 21, " 

BBOWN L. & G., off North ave., (near S. 

C. E. E. Bound house, Owego 

Fox Charles, off r 91, " 

Gage Miner, r 37. " 

Gage Walter, r 37, " 

GILES JOHN S., r 87, Apalachin, " 

Nichols Washington, r 102X, Apalachin, " 
Noteware Wallace E., r 110, South Apa- 
lachin, ' " 
TALCOTT CHAELES, r 40, 
Talcott George B., r 40, " 
Ferris George C, r 35, West Candor, Spencer 
Forsyth Nelson A., r 40, " 
Holdridge Wilham A., r 41, " 
SHAW GEOEGE B.,'r 30, " 
SNOOK DAVID L., Maii st., " 
Van Marter, r 41, " 
GOODEICH STEPHEN S., r 46, Owego, Tioga 

Apothecaries. 

See Drugs and Medicines. 
Architects and Builders. 

(See also Carpenters and Builders, and Ma- 
sous and Builders.) 
Utter John, 120 Howard st., Waverly, Barton 
Artists, Portrait, IJandscape, etc: 
(See also Photographers.) 
Comstock A. B. Mrs., 126 Waverly St., 

Waverly, Barton 

Stanley Belle, (teacher) 101 Penn. ave., 

Waverly, " 

HAIGHT EDITH J., (teacher) Glen st., 

!Bsi'lt Rrni*P 

SUTTON GEOEGE B., r 41, Newark Valley 
MITCHELL IDA A., Cady ave., Nichols 

MITCHELL MABY J., Cady ave., " 

CAMP MAEY L.. Mks., 259 Erie st., Owego 
*HAEGEAVE, W. G., 38 and 40 Lake st., " 
- Kimball Helen Mrs., 425 Main St., " 

MOEEHOUSE ALLIE, Spencer ave., " 

SMITH HATTIE A, 443 Main St., 

Bakers and Confectioners. 
(See also Confectionery, Fruits, etc.) 
Clark Charles H.. 121 Broad St., Waver- 
ly, Barton 
HANFOED & LOBD, 222, Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

PILGEIM FEEDEBIC, 241 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

JACKSON DWIGHT P., Main St., Candor 

Stannard Hiram E., Newark Valley 

Bonham Emma, 3 Park at., Owego 

Burton Nathaniel T., 61 North ave. •' 



NYE BEOTHEES, 44 Lake St., Owego- 

PAELETT EOBEET Jb., Academy st„ 

Spencer 
Bands. 
(In Societies, See Contents.) 
Banks. 
FIEST NATIONAL, Broad cor. Fulton St., 

Waverly, ' Barton 

THE CITIZENS' BANK, 214 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

FIEST NAT. BANK, Main St., Candor 

FIEST NATIONAL BANK, 179 Front St., 

Owego 
OWEGO NATIONAL BANK, 6 Lake St., " 
TIOGA NATIONAL BANK OF OWEGO, 

199 Front St., - " 

FAEMEES' & MEECHANTS', Main St., 

Spencer 
Barbers and Hair-Dressers. 
Gibson Eobert W., 213 Broad st., Wa- 
verly, Barton 
Hancock Irving, 225 Broad st.^Jfavevly, " 
Henry Edward, 209 Broad st. Waverly, " 
Lockerby Wallace H., 12 Fulton St., Wa^ 

verly, " 

Woodburn James L. . Fulton st. , Waverly, ' ' 
EOCKEFELLEE CHAELES H., Main 

St., Berkshire 

Stewart Charles, Main st., Candor 

SANDWICK JOHN E., Newark Valley 

MaJlory WiUiam W.. Main St., Nichols 

WiUiams George F., Main St., " 

Butler James, 65 North ave., Owego 

Flamer Isaiah, 154 Front st. , " 

Foster & Hampton, 129 North ave., " 

HoUensworth Jeremiah M., 22 Lake st., " 
Horrigan William, 152 North ave., " 

Hubbard Thomas, Lake st., " 

King Charles H., Ah-wa-ga House, " 

Lee Albert S., 109 North ave., " 

Spaulditig Enoch E., 47 Lake St., " 

Carter Fi'ank E., Main st., Spencer 

Gilbert Norman A., > " 

Basket Makers. 
Stevens James M.. WiUseyviUe, r 1, Candor 
Thornton James J., r 93, " 

Neff Asel, ■ Newark VaUey- 

Crandall WiUiam, r 10. Nichols- 

Thornton Jeremiah, 82 W. Main st., Owego 
Thornton Thomas, r 27, " 

Burtless James, r 2, North Spencer, Spencer- 
Stevens WiUiam H., r 1, " 

Bee Keepers. 

See Apiarists. 
Blacksmiths and Horseshoers. 

Boyce Lyman, Halsev VaUey, Barton- 

COLEMAN CHAS. H., Lockwood, 

Crans Ard F., Factory viUe, " 

Edgarton Willis, Lockwood, ' ' 

Gillan Ben. E., Main st., Factoryville, " 

Kinsman & Young, 3 Penn. ave., Waverly, ' ' 

Leonard Charles, r 55, " 

Mapes Milton C, Factoryville, " 

MoAidle Bernard, 302 Broad st. , Waverly, ' ' 

Murray WiUiam, W. FactoryviUe, " 

Poole Frank, Halsey Valley, " 

Quinly Elmer, Broad st., Wayerly,. " 

Simpson EUiot, Elizabeth St., Waverly, " 

Simpson Isaac, Broad St., Waverly, " 
SIMPSON WILLIAM H., 301 Broad St., 

Waverly, ' "■ 



.220 BLACKSMITHS AND HORSESHOERS— BOTTLING WORKS. 



BUFFINGTON CALVIN A. Railroad 

Bt., Berkshire 

Whiting Frank S., Speedsviile, Tomp. 

Co., 
Baylor Charles T., Main st., Candor 

Bolton Clarence S., Main st., •' 
CARPENTER WILLIAM L., Railroad 

ave., " 

Casterline Romeo W., Strait's Cbmers, " 

DRAPER MENZ V., Catatonk, " 

Eiklor George I., r 8, " 

Holden Dallas, r 120, WeltonviUe, " 

Houck George E., r 95, " 

Hover Leander, r 88, " 

Kirk Richard, r 63, " 
Kyle Enos J., r 22, SpeedsviUe, Tomp. 

Co., " 

Mix Emory C, WiUseyyille, r 30, " 

QUIMLY ELMINA E. . Owego St., ' ' 

Slawson James G., Foundry st., " 

Smullen George B., WeltonviUe, r 120, " 

SmuUen Patrick, r 120, WeltonviUe, " 

Terwilliger Solomon E., r 183, Catatonk, '• 

Woodard Ehas H., r 82, WeltonviUe, " 
Belden Uriah L., Newark VaUey 

Belden WilUam H., r 22, West Newark, '• 
Bnfflngton Chanoey L., r 11, Ketohumville, " 

Mix Eugene P., " 

Nowlan & Abbott, " 

Sharp Robert B., r 11, KetohumviUe, " 

SmuUen Charles M., r 1, JenksviUe, " 

Sweet Charles E., r 13, Ketchumville, " 

Riley William, r 13, KetohumviUe, " 
DeGroat William, r 16, Owego, Nichols 

MiUer Edmund S^ Main St., " 

Smith Oliver P., Hooper's Yalley, " 

WATERMAN & METTLER, Main at., " 

WATERMAN JOHN G., r 8, " 
Dye Ansel M., r 17 cor. 11, Riohford 

MarshaU Charles, r 31, " 

Moreland George D., " 

Owens Levi, r 31 cor. 18, " 
Conuant Simeon, r 117, Owego 

CorneU Henry, r 56, " 

Edward Edward, r 54, CampviUe, " 

Gould Adam C, 16 Temple st., " 

HoweU & Tracy, Apalachin, " 

Johnson Stillman, r 40, " 

McCaslin Alexander, Apalachin, " 

Meachan Erastus, 221 North ave., ■ ' 

Reed James, L., r 4, FlemingviUe, " 

Rhinevault Myron, 81 North ave., " 
Riley & GUlett, 140 Front St., 

RUey James, 8l North ave., " 

iSeverson George, r 51, CampviUe, " 

SMITH LEWIS, 168 North ave., •' 

Terbush Lancelott B., r 16, FlemingviUe, " 

Wood George H., North ave., ' " 
Clark Lewis, r 34, Spencer 

Clark Sylvenus B., r 38, " 

COMPTON SILAS, r 37, West Candor, " 

Day William S , r 28, " 

Griffith Absalom, r 14, " 

HullEben, " 

Kirk Charles N., r 59, Halsey Valley, " 

Lang Charles F., " 

Lange William H., '■ 

Mabee Daniel, '• 

Perrin WiUiam, r 13, " 

Pritchard Pratt A., " 

Ryant Daniel J., r 20, North Spencer " 

.SabinSethO., r42K, .■ " 

.SEELY S. ALFRED, (prop.) " 

Turk David, Academy St., " 
.SXj%RKIi:Y &. WINTERS, Tfrbolesale 



Spencer 



Tioga 



Turk Stephen D., 

WeUs Josiah, Main st., 

Bates William, Halsey VaUey, r 21, 

Estep Loren, r 51 Tioga Center, " 

Farnham Orin, Smithboro, " 

KIRK CHAELES N., Halsey VaUey, " 

Mapes Lewis, r 28, Owego, " 

Wiggins Silas, r 36 Tioga Center, " 

Boardin;; Houses. 
Boyee Genevieve, FactoryviUe, Barton 

Hiuman Eliza A., 114 Chemung St., Wa- 

verly, " 

Seely Edmund, 12 Park ave., Waverly, " 
Hamilton EUiott, r 6, Berkshire 

COOLEY BENJAMIN F., Newark VaUey 

Winship Charles B., " 

Dunham Hannah, 118 Temple St., Owego 

Dutton Mortimer E., r 69, Apalachin, " 
FreehiU Maria, 64 South Depot st. , ' ■ 

Lawheed Joseph W., 118 Temple St., " 

Seely Lewis, 133 North ave., " 

Sykes Maria B., 313 Main St., " 

Book Binderies. 
OWEGO TIMES, W. Smyth & Son, 

props., 193 Main, " 

Books and Stationery. 

Tracy John L., 204 Broad St., Waverly, Barton 
COBURN & STRAIT, 17 Lake St., Owego 

Decker Pho.ebe Mrs., 186 Main st., '• 

Pinney Hammon D., 45 Lake st., '■ 

EMMONS LUCIUS E., Main st., Spencer 

Boots and Shoes, Dealers and Shoe- 
makers. 

(See also General Merchants.) 
Baldwin Albert B., 6 Fulton st., Waverly, 

Barton 
BUNN ALBERT E., 73 Broad St., War 

verly, ' ' 

Demorest Clarence L., 247 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

HUdebrand Andrew, 225 Broad St., Wa- 
verly, " 
Racklyeft John, 267 Broad St., Wa- 
verly, " 
Spencer Charles F., 226 Broad st., Wa- 
verly, " 
Conant Luther, Main st., Nichols 
Goodenough Delos, Main st., " 
DANA CHARLES, (custom) 65 North 

ave., Owego 

Greenwood James (custom) 188 Front 

st " 

HARDER EMMOTT, 23 Lake st.. 
Chamberlain L. N. & Son, Lake st., " 

Lounsbui-y WiUiani H., 63 North ave., " 
Lyon & Ripley, 188 Front st., " 

MORTON LEVI, Apalachin, 
SWEET BROTHERS, 54 North ave., 
WALL & CO., 200 Front st., 
WUbur WiUiam E., 182 Main st., " 

DAY JOHN & SON, Main st., Spencer 

KNAPP FREDERICK J.. Main st., 

Smithboro, Tioga 

Bottling Works. 
MILLS & O'BRIEN, Elizabeth St., Wa- 
verly, Barton 
Sheahau Michael, Broad cor. Loder at., 

Waverly, " 

Cronk W. D., r 90. Candor 

Hulslander John H., r 24, Newark VaUey 

and Retail Druggists, Owego. 



BOTTLING WORKS — CARPENTERS AND BUILDERS. 



221- 



Nichols 
Owego 



Spencer 



COBWEB BOTTLING WOBKS, P. Ma- 

loney, prop., Fox St., Owego 

Cabinet Makers. 

(See also Furniture Dealers and Manufac- 
turers.) 
Barr John C, Elizabeth at , Waverly, Barton 
Hart Selem M., (Speedsville, Tomp. Co.) 

r 18, Berkshire 

FESSENDEN W. L. &. SON, Candor 

Johnson Leonard A., Church st., 
Boss Leonard B., Main St., 
Corchran John T., 51, George St., 
Hibbard Ealph W., 112 Pranlclin st. 
NeweU Friend G., 17 Lake St., 
Wood Charles H., r 60, 
Newman William H., r 48, 

Carpenters and Builders. 

(See also Architects and Builders, Masons and 

Builders, Contractors and Builders.) 
BALDWIN HUGH, Broad n Penn. ave., 

Waverly, Baruon 

Barr .John C.. Jr., Waverly, " 
BUEKE OSCAR F., Waverly, 

CasterUne Coe, Factoryville, " 

CourtwrightM. V.B., " 

Davenport MUea, r 39, " 

Drake George C, Waverly, " 

FUkins CorneUus, Factoryville, " 

Hamilton Simeon, off r 60, Waverly, " 
HARDING CHARLES E., Ithaca st, 

Factoryville. " 

Harris George V., Factoryville, " 

Giltner Dexter E., Waverly, " 

Parker Charles P.. Factoryville, " 

Rhodes Isaac, Factoryville, " 

Ross Frank, 10 Pine st., Waverly. " 

Rowland William A.. Waverly, " 

Skillings Giles, r 9. Halscy Valley, " 
SOLOMON JOHN v., Waverly, 

Swarthout Charles B., Factoryville, •' 

Westfall Harry, Factoryville, ■' 

Yaple Amos S., r 39, " 
Brown Abraham, Main st., Berkshire 

Brown Myron, r 38, " 

Church Orris, r 29, " 

Crawford James H. , " 
Hart Arthur L., r 18, SpeedsvUle, Tomp. 

Co., 
Hart Samuel L., rl8, Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., 

Hart Selem, r 18, Speedsville, Tomp. Co., " 

Havden Patsey W., Glen St., " 

Hubbard Howard M. , r 20, " 
Xegg Reuben T., r 18. Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., 
MeCov Oliver A., rl8, Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., 
Northrup Frank L., rl8, Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., " 

Payne Henry A., "' 

Sherman JSmes W., r 27, " 

Young Edward W., " 
Abbey WiUiam, r 112, Candor 

Allen James M., r 29, " 

Allen William D., r 29, " 

Ayers Willis, Wilseyville, " 

Barden Robert S.. r 24, " 
BARROTT VANiS[ESSW.,r84,Welton- 

ville, 

Burleigh Eben, r 39, ' " 

Carl Peter. Owego St., 

CORTKIGHT JOSEPH J., WeltonviUe, " | 
STA.RKEV & WINTERS, Drasglsts, 



Candor - 



Eiklor George I., r 8, 
Elmendorf Clarence, 
Farley Eh J., r 14, Speedsville, Tomp. Co., " 

Frank Fred, r 134, Catatonk, " 

Flack Thomas W., r 133, Catatonk, " 

Galpin Edward, r 85, WeltonviUe, " 

German Frederick E., " 

Gransbnry Edward, r 102, " 

Gridley Demorn, r 63, " 

Harding Sherman, " 

Hatch Parker, r 85, WeltonviUe, " 

Herdic Peter, r 139, Strait's Corners, " 

Howes Oscar, '• 

Katell MarshaU R., r 90, " 

Keeler Ethelbert B., r 94, " 

Leet JuUus C, r 22, Speedsville, " 

Leet Samuel, SpeedsviUe, " 

Lewis Theodore H., Owego st., " 

Lynch Ira, Royal St., " 
Manning Robert P., r 31, South Danbv, " 

Mead Eussel J., WeltonviUe, " " 

Merchant Gideon, r 32, WUlseyviUe, " 

Orcott David, r 95, " 

OWEN ABEL, C, r 109, " 

Robinson MurtiUow A., " 

Sarson Samuel T., r 3, " 

SeweU John, r 78, WeltonviUe, " 

Smith John J., " 

Smith Davelle, r 37, '■ 

Smith Lucius, r 95, " 

Smith William R., r 37, " 

Starkweather Joel, Pond st., " 

Taoey Alexander, ■' 

Tubbs Charles N., r 41, " 

Tubbs Ebenezer, r 41. " 

Turk Levi, ' '• 

TURNER GEORGE C, r 143, Strait's 

Corners, " 
Van Debogart Lawrence, r 30. WiUsey- 

ville, " 
Woodford Elbert C, r 62, West Candor, " 
Abbey Reuben, r 16, Newark Valley 

Barber Virgil C, " 
BERKLEY CHARLES E., r 53, 

Bishop La Mont, " 

Davison D. Henry, r 22, West Newark, " 

Fellows WiUiam A., ' 

GaskUl Levi C. r 41, " 

HAMMOND ADELBEET C, r 16, " 

Hammond Melville F.,.r 6, " 
Hover Marvin L., r 22, West Newark, 

Jackson 0. Lester, •' 

Keith Luiius A., r 1, JenksviUe, " 

Lcgg MelviUe M., " 

Luck Ozias F., r 35, " 

Miller Daniel H., r 5, " 

Nolton William, " 

Pease Henry F., r 12, KetchumviUe, " 

Riley Andrew B., " 

Saddlemire Alexander, r-31. '• 

Sherman Hiram L., " 

Walter Clarence S., r 41, " 

WilUama Theodore, " 
Bixby Charles B., 
Bixby Chester, 
CurkendoU WiUiam, r 10, 
Dunham Benjamin, r 36, Owego, 
Edsall Benjamin F., 
EUis George, Jr., Hooper's Valley, 
Ellsworth Henry N., 
Laning Charles P., 
Loveland Seth H., Waverly, 
Mallery John'L., r 23, Owego, 
MerriU Albert S., 
Oivego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



Nichols ■ 



222 TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 

THE OWEGO • RECORD 

Daily and ^eei^ly. 

I 72 FRONT STREET, - OWEGO, N. Y. 

The Only Daily Paper in the County, published every evening and sent 
to iny address for $4.50 per year ; 40 cents per month ; or 10 cents per 
week. Full telegraph, county and local news. Acknowledged as the 
best advertising medium in Owego. 



■rrUE- 



Published every Friday. Contains more general, local and county news 
■than any other paper in the county. Full market reports, court proceed- 
ings, and reports of all real estate transfers in the county published every 
week. Correspondents from every important place in the county. 

THE BEST ADVERTISING MEDIUM IN THE COUNTY. 



^1 JOB iAiORK- 1^ 

Of all kinds done in the best of style. In its Job Rooms the Record 
has the leading trade in town. 

SOOTT <5S TT^T-A-TDreOS, - ^'VLloliSliers. 



CARPENTERS AND BUILDERS. 



223 



MoBher Edwin, Nichols 

Ifewland Samuel, r 18, Owego, " 

Turner G. M. DaUas, " 

Waterman James H., r 8, " 

Wiggins George, r 8, " 
Abel Alonzo, 84 MoMaster st., Owego 

Beeker Payette A.. Fifth ave., " 

Beers Edwin W., South Side, " 

Case Ellis L., 216 East Temple at., " 

Cheeks Moulton, 508 Main St., " 

Cole Smith B., 40 Adaline st., " 

Conant Frank L., 122 Franklin st. " 

Crans Egbert, 67 Central ave., '■ 

Decker John S., Apalachin, " 

Dexter Edwin J., r 54, Campville, " 

Diamond Irving,' 126 MoMaster St., " 

Duncan Stephen, 85 Paige St., " 

Durt'ee Edgar S., 137 North ave., '• 

Durkee Charles E., 32 Main st., " 

Edson Gfiorge, over 107 North ave., " 

Evans Joaiah E., 4 William St., " 

Evans Truman, r 54 Campville, " 
FEEGUSON T. JEPFEESON, 151 Tal- 

cott at. 

Finch Smith, 170 Weat ave., " 

Ford Charles H., r 35 Gaskills Corners. " 

Ford Luoiua, 607 Main at., " 

Forgason Charles, 19 Lake at., " 

Frank Walker, r 27, " 

Genung Abram C, 118 Franklin st., " 
GILLSON WILLIAM H., 116 West ave., " 

Hall Granville W., Cortright House, " 

Haner Addison L., r 96. " 
Hemstrought Abram V., 198 E. Temple St., " 

Holes George, 7 Park st., •' 

Hooker Archie S., 113 Franklin St., " 

Hooker Warren, G«orge St., " 

Howard Orville, 7 Spruce St., " 

Hutchinson James, 232 E. Temple st., " 

Jones Edward, r 84, Apalachin, " 

JONES JAMES E., 191 MoMaster St., " 

Jones Pardon, Apalachin, " 

Kaley Adam I., r 4, " 

Kaley William H., 177 Main st., " 

Kellogg Ulysses P., 22 Fulton st., " 

Knight Milton W., 56 Forayth at., " 
Lainhart Thomaa, r 30 Union, Broome Co., " 

Leasure George, r 123 South Owego, " 
Leonard Allen, Water at., 

Lindaley Hiram, r 40, " 

LOCKE EEUBEN B., 241 Erie at., " 

Male William, 22 William at., " 

Manning WiUiam H., 113 Main St., " 

McLean Ezra, 172 Talcott at., " 
MEACHAM CHABLES D., 99 Talcott at., •' 

Middaugh Augustus B., 32 Adaline at,, " 

Newell Frank. 117 Central ave., " 

Noble Asa 8., 12 AdaUne at., " 
Noonan David E., 96 Franklin st., 

Orford Charles F., Apalachin, " 

Park George W., 74 Fox St., " 

Perkins Frederick, 21 Fulton at., " 

Perry WilUam H., South Side, " 

Potter Isaac L., 100 Cheatnut St., " 

Eandall Frank, 607 Main st. , " 

Eelyea Andrew, 26 Fulton St., " 

Eeynolda Peter, 27 North ave., " 

Eiehardson Wesley L ., 557 Front at., " 

Eightmier Charles H., 17 George St., " 

Eobinson Alvin T., Adaline st., " 

Eobinson George, 115 Temple at., " 

EusseU Minor, r 108 South Apalachin, " 

Savey Edmund G., Apalachin, ■' 

Savey WUliam, Apalachin, " 



Saxton Edward, 96 Liberty St., Owego 

Searles Lot, 97 Central ave., " 

Shepard W. Henry, Main at. " 

Siaaon Wilham D., 18 Fulton at., " 

Somera Daniel T., 130 Talcott at., " 

Storm John C, 42 George at., " 

Strong Lewis, 258 North ave., " 
SYKES THEODOEE P., 52 Liberty St., '• 

Upham Marcus K., 5 Temple St., " 

TanBrunt Henry, 20 Temple at., " 

Van Over Jacob, Eiver at., " 

Vermilyea Abram, 39 Weat ave., " 

Wade Charlea M., 119 Weat ave., " 

Walker Amos. Adaline st., " 

Walker Rial H., Buckbee Block, " 
Walter Franklin A., r 25, Gaskill's Corners," 
Way William E., 174 North ave., 

Welch Charles, AdaUne St., " 

White John, 26 William St., " 

Whittemore John, r 27, " 

Williams Chester D., 59 Weat ave., " 

Williama Edward W., 119 Main at., " 

Yerks William A, 246 B. Temple St., " 

Zilnmer Albert, 66 Adaline «t., " 
Abbey Edward B., r 25, Eichford 

Allen Elmer, r 42, " 

Barden Edward, r 18, " 

Genung Orrin L., r 45}<, " . 
HEATH NATHANIEL, r 40, 
HOWLAlSfD HAEEISON r 36, Center 

Lisle, Broome Co., " 

Hutchinson Wesley J., Eailroad St., " 

King Wilham W., r 10, Harford Mills, " 
MEACHAM OBRIN N., r 37, 

Morton William, r 10, " 

Robinson Isaac N., r21, " 

Vunk J. Frank, Main St., " 
Welch Rufua H., Caroline, Tomp. Co., 

off r 23, " 
Butts Charles E., Jr., Spencer 
Clark Howard, ' " 

Cowles Sylvester, r 2, North Spencer, '• 

De Eemer Enos, r 36, West Candor, " 

Ferris I)avid A., r 63, - " 

Griffin Jamea A., - " 

Hugg Horace A., " 
Hutohihga EhJH., 

Kirk Charlea, r 59, Halaey Valley, " 

Lott Benjamin, • << 

McKee George E. , " 

Osborn John C, r 43, " 

Pierson George, " 

Eeeve Aaron D., " 

Riker C. L., r 34, " 

Riket William H., r 38, '• 

Robinson Fletcher O., " 

Eoe William W., r 38, " 

Shaw John W., r 39, West Candor, " 

Simms John C, r 43, Van Etten St., " 

Stevens Seneca, r 65, . " 

Thornton George, r 37, West Candor, " 

Van Kleek Jesse B.. r 63, " 

Van Natta Fred, r 47, " 

VOSE EPHEAIM, r 38, " 

Weatbrook Arthur, " 

Weeks William W., r 38, " 
Barden A. E., Smithboro, Tioga 

Bogart David R., Halsey Valley, " 

Coleman Jamea, r 62, Tioga Center, " 
Coleman William D., r 52, Tioga Center, " 

Fenderaon Ely, r 41, Tioga Center, " 

Fox Henry, r 47, Owego, " 

Hamilton Charlea, r 22, Tioga Center, " 

Horton George M., r 70, Smithboro, " 



224 CARPENTERS, BUILDERS — CLOTHIERS, MERCHANT TAILORS. 



Johnson J. Edward, Smithboro, Tioga 

Johnson Peter M., r 53, Tioga Center, " 
Johnson Warren, r 55, Smithboro, " 

Middaugh Lorenzo T., r 73, Smithboro, " 
Mulock Edwin, r 71, Smithboro, " 

Pearaall John C, r 71, Smithboro, " 

Pelham Charles, r 44, Owego, " 

PEERY ALBEBT A., Smithboro, " 

Sargent Alvin. Smithboro, " 

Snyder Charles, r 6, Owego, . " 

Snvder Nicholas N., r 4, Strait's Corners, ' ■ 
TEIBE CHARLES H., Tioga Center, '• 

Truesdail William, r ii, Owego, " 

Ward Perry' C, r 41, Tioga Center, " 

Weber PhiUp, jr.. r 7, Owego, ■' 

Wright WiUiam, Tioga Center, •' 

Taples Charles, r 31, Owego, " 

Carpet Weavers. 
Price N. W. Mrs., 5 Pine st., Waverly, Barton 
HART SARAH E., SpeedsTUle, Tomp. 

Co., rl8, Berkshire 

Emerson Charity, r 128, Strait's Corners, 

Candor 
Hover Liicinda A., r 38, Newark Valley 

LAWRENCE SARAH A., r 61, " 

Wright Nancy W., r 8. Nichols 

Lewis Maria Mrs., r 66, Owego 

Locke Mary E., 91 Fox st., " 

Yerts Clarissa, 31 Adaline St., " 

Carrlase, Wagon and Sleigh Manu- 
facturers, and Wheelwrights. 
COLEMAN CHARLES H., Lockwood, Barton 
Dnnham James J., Broad st., Waverly, " 
Ellas A. Clark, Main St., " 

Pinch Amasa, Factoryville, " 

Guyer H. E., Broad c. Clark st , Waverly, " 
Rowland John E.. 242 Broad St., Waverly, " 
TanAmburgh Abdial B., 304 Broad st., 

Waverly, " 

BRAINARD CHARLES E.. Berkshire 

BDFFINGTON CALVIN A, Railroad St., " 
Hough taling Burt. •' 

HOUGHTALING WILLIAM M., Main St., '■ 
Humphreys Erastus E., Speedsville, 

Tomp. Co., r 19 cor. 17, " 

Judd John N., r 6. " 

PRATT MARSHALL D., i' 

CARPENTER WILLIAM L., Candor 

Curtis William, r 5, " 

Embody Jacob, " 

Holden Dallas, r 120, WeltonvUle, " 

PAEMELEFREDEEICK,(dealer)Main St., " 
Searles George M., Main St., " 

Chambers Charles, Newark Valley 

Kilev Andrew B., (dealer) " ' 

WHITING BROS., " 

Turner Harvey, off Main st., Nichols 

Ballon Uartwell M., r 12, Owego 

Hemstrought James, r 54, Campville, " 

Hill Charles O., 89 Central ave., " 

Kellum Ambrose, Apalachin, " 

Moore & Ross, 146 North ave., " 

Raymond & Emeiy, Central ave., cor. 

Temple st. " 

Russell Minor, r 108, Soxith Apalachin, " 
Stratton Eicbard, r 20, " 

Terbush Lancelott B., r 16, Flemingviile, " 
Genung Oi rin L.. r 45>^, Eiohford 

PEEEY EDWIN A., r 43, " 

Smith Julius C, " 

BEUNDAGE DeWITT C, VanEtten St., 

Spencer 
CAMPTON SILAS, r 37, West Candor, " 
STjIRKEV dc vriNTERS, Wholesale 



Garey Abram L., Spencer 

Hall Leonard F., r 28, " 

Wood WiUiam H., " 

Cathn George, r 52, lioga, Center, Tioga 

Genung Adam S., Smithboro, " 

Signor George H., r 36, Tioga Center, " - 

Cider Mills. 
Manning Fred B., Halsey Valley, Barton 

Mercereau & Co., Broad st., Waverly, " 

Akins Henry S., r 18, Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., Berkshire 

Cooper & Thornton, r 62, West Candor, Candor 
DUMOND DAVID, " 

Snyder DeWitt M.. r 1, WiUseyviUe. " 

Wheeler Abram T., " 

FAENHAM OSCAR E., r 49K, Nichols 

MATTHEWS ISAIAH, r 38, ' " 

Rounds Simeon, r 83, Apalachin, Owego 

Smith OrvUle, r 54, Campville, " 

Card Charles P., r 43, Spencer 

FAENHAM HEEBEET, off r 12, Owego, Tioga 

Clergymen. 
Bowen George N., (Episcopal) Waverly, Barton 
Cooper David H., (Baptist) Waverly, " 

Evans Ziba, (M. E.) Lockwood, " 

MoShane Edward, (E. C.) 103 Clark St., 

Waverly, " 

Peck Luther, (M. E.) " 

Pendell John E., (Bapt.) Waverly, " 

Salmon Franklin J,, (Bapt.) " 

Taylor John L.. (Pres. I Waverly, " 

Woodiuff James 0., (M. E.) Waverly, " 

Hough Joel J., (Cong.) Berkshire 

Cronk Byron E., (Bapt.) Candor 

Jacobs Hiram C, (Bapt.) r 75, " 

Osburn Arthur, (M. E.) r 116, " 

WiUiston Horace. (M. E.) Owego st., •' 

AngeU Thomas, (retired M. E.) 

Ketchumvihe, Newark Valley 

Gale Hiram, (reform Meth.) 

Ketchumville, " 

Leach Daniel F., (Bapt.) " 

Treible Wilson, (M. E.) " 

Van Deusen H. Newton, (M. E.) Nichols 

Wilson James M., M. D. (Pres.) " 

Barnes Newton W., (M.E.) Apilaohin, Owego 
Burton Reuben E., (Bapt.) 19 Ross st., " 
Dickinson Ira W., (M. E.) r 73, Camp- 
ville, " 
Fessenden Nelson, (W. Meth.) Apalachin, " 
Howe Olin R., (Cong.) 290 Main St., " 
Johnson Thomas D. (R. C.) Main st., " 
Ketchum La Fayette F., (reform Meth.) 

92 Franklin St., '• 

Kidder James H,, (P. E.) 100 Main St., " 
McKenzie Alexander, (Pres.) 321 Front, " 
Sandford William, (African M. E.) bds. 

106 Paige st.. " 

Shepard Charles D., (M. E.) r 40 Flem- 

ingville, " 

Tyler Edward, (Christian) Harford MiUs, 

Richford 
Howard Loring P., CM. E.) Spencer 

Livermore Albert, (Pres.) " 

Matteson Fayette A., (Bapt.) r 71, 

Smithboro, Tioga 

Tilden Alanson, Tioga Center, " 

Clothiers, Merchant Tailors, and 
Tailors. 

(See also General Merchants.) 
Betowski W. Leon, 123 Broad St., 

Waverly, Barton 

and Retail DragglstB, Onrego. 



CLOTHIERS, MERCHANT TAILORS, TAILORS— CREAMERIES. 225 



Moit Amasa S., 222 Broad St., Waverly, Barton 
PEBKINS FRED. C, 208 Main St., 

Waverly, " 

Salonsky Isaac, 224 Broad at., Waverly, " 
Smitt Antoni B., 10 Fulton at., Waverly, '■ 
Unger Adolph, Waverly, " 

Unger Solomon, 230 Broad st,, Waverly, " 
Van Yelsor & Co., 212 Broad at., Waverly, " 
Grosa Jamea O., Berkahire 

Goldstein Bros , " 

BANDLEE EOBEET, 19 and 21 Lake St., 

Owego 
Berger Andrew F. F., Lake St., " 

Coleman Juliette, 9 and 11 Lake St., " 

Dwells & Link, Front st., " 

Whitson Isidor, 201 Front St., " 

Coal and Wood Dealers, also liime 
and Cement. 

Gray DeWitt C, Erie at., Waverly, Barton 
■Guyer H. E., Broad cor. Clark St., Wa- 
verly, " 
HAGADOBN DeWITT C, Lockwood, " 
Sane Edward M., " 
ficott Charles, 256 Broad St., Waverly, " 
Sneffin & Scott, Broad at., Waverly, " 
Gridley WiUiam C, West Candor, Candor 
HEATH FRANK L., Main at., " 
DIMMICK & YOUNG, Newark Valley, 
WUliama Lucius E., " 
*HOUSEEPHBAIMH., cor. West ave. 

and MoMaster, Owego 

KEELEE ALBEET H., Temple cor. Cen- 
tral ave, " 
Morae NeweU, 133 Temple, " 
STEDMAN WHEELEE; r 40, FlemingviUe, " 
Smith W. C.& Co., Eichford 

Confectioners, Fruits, Ice Cream, Etc. 

<See also Bakers and Confectioners, also Gro- 

cera) 
Erauenthal laedore E., 244 Broad at., 

Waverly, Barton 

Horton Emma E. Mra., 210 Broad St., " 

Larnard Aeolph 8., 3 Ehzabeth St., " 

Tumey William E., 239Broadst., Waverly, " 
JACKSON DWIGHT P., Main at., Candor 
Johnaon Silas W., r 88, " 

Westbrook Levi, Main St., Nichols 

JBeera Frank J., 55 North ave., Owego 

CLiEK HEEMAN C, 68 North ave., " 

Cuneo Pietro, 181 Front st., " 

Graves Henry A., 49 Lake st., " 

Groat Abram W., 115 North ave, " 

McArthur John, 107 North ave., ■' 

Tillotson James E., 86 North ave., " 

Contractors and Builders. 
<See also Architects and Builders, Carpentera 

andBijilders, and Masons and Builders.) 
Blossom Jason B., 16 Chemung St., Wa- 
verly, " Barton 
BEOO^ AUGUSTUS. Lockwood, " 
Boane Gabriel P., 138 Chemung St., Wa- 
verly, 
GENUNG SHEEMAN A., Fulton St., Wa- 

veriy, 
Hess Nirum J., Fulton at., Waverly, " 

LAENAEDA. WAEEEN, Lyman ave., 

Waverly. " 

LENT CLABENCE A., Lincoln cor. 

Spring St., Waverly, " 

BOGEES CHAELES H., 413 Chemung 
at., Waverly, 



Seacord John, 27 Lincoln St., Waverly, Barton 
Simooe Eli, Waverly,, ' " 

VanAtta Azariah, 111 Penn. ave.. Waverly " 
Vibbert Charles M., 1'48 Waverly st., Waverly 
WALLACE ALFRED H., 150 Waverly 

St., Waverly, Barton 

Brooks George T., Owego Bt.,. Candor 

Cronk Byron -E., . < r '• 

ELMENDOEF CYEENU8, Main St., 
German Cyrus B., " 

STOWELL ALMOND F., Eaili-oad St., 
VOSE ENOCH, West Candor, r 108, 
Ackerman Cornelius E., JenksviUe, 

Newark Valley 
AngellElworth J., " 

Chapman Canfleld, " 

Chapman George M., " 

BIXBY SMITH E., Eiver st., Nichols 

Evans Elijah K., r 8, " 

WIGGINS CLOYD B., r 8, 
Woods Ehsha B., r 40, Eichford 

Corchrane & Conant, 62 Temple St., Owego 
Dean James A., Spencer ave., " 

Fox William S., Apalachin,'* ' ' 

Groesbeck George S., r 61, " 

Hamilton Joel A., 3 Front at., " 

Johnson Andrew J., r 104, Apalaohin, " 
KEELEE ALBERT H., Temple cor. 

Central ave., " 

Kellogg Charles T., 262 Prospect st., " 

Sullivan James, 58 Liberty St.. " 

Terrill L. FonteneU, 100 Franldin st., ■' 

WARNER FRANK H., Fox st., 
WELCH DAVTO A., 243 Prospect st., " 
Welch William H, 267 Prospect st., " 

Eichardson & Campbell, r 43, Spencer 

Sawyer Ezra O., " 

West Marahall C^ '■ 

'FORD & BAUEE, Strait's Comers, Tioga 

Coopers. 
Manning Jttdson, r 9, Halsey Valley, Barton 
SkeUenger Daniel J., Speedsvine, Tomp. 

Co., ■ Berkshire 

Ahlers Dedrick G., Gould St., Candor 

Barber Hiram, r 139, " 

Eeaaor James B., r44j " , 

Strong Eugene B., WillseyviUe, r 3. " 

Wolverton Charles A, r 131, ' " 

Golden Augustus H., r 22, West Newark, 

Newark Valley 
Golden Prentis E., r 22, West Newark, " 
Moon Levi B., ;< 

CampboU Amos B.. Owego, Nichols 

Hyde WiUiam, r 20, Owego 

IngersoU Eugene F., r 46, " 

Vincent Dexter C, r 46, " 

Thompson Benjamin, r 44, Eichford 

Brown William, r 18, Spencer 

Eaton Daniel B.. Smithboro. Tioga 

Forsyth W. Henry, r 21, Halsey VaUey, " 
Hevland Douglass, r 28, Owego, '• 

HOYT lEA, r 21, Halsey VaUey, " 

Hyde Gordon, r 12, Owego, " 

Hynes Charles, Halsey VaUey, " 

Stimpson Charles, Smithboro, " 

Country Stores. 
(See General Merchants.) 
Creameries. 
CiYUTA CEEAMEEY, Schuyler & Hard- 
ing, props., FactoryviUe, Barton 
GILLETT & DECKEE CEEAMEEY, W. 
E. GiUett and A. I. Decker, props. , 
Reniff, 



SXARKEY & WINTERS, promptly fill OTail and Telephone Orders. 
15 



226 TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



-THE- 



U/au^rly * j^duo(;at^. 



FRANK! 



LOYAL! 



EARNEST 



The Oldest, Largest and Best Paper Published in 



Republican to the Core ! 

True to Friends and Fair to Foes ! 
Full of News! 

Bristling with Sense ! 

Complete in Every Departnnenf 



-^The Largest Circnlation in Waverly and Still Climbing Dp.-^ 



ITS IWIOTTO-"STi*A.IO-H:'r A.HE}A.I>.»' 



T.EJisivis, - $1.00 i3sr ..A.iD'v-^israE, 



In the hands of Thoroughly Competent Workmen. 

EDGAR L. VINCENT, Prppi i,.tor.. 
GHO D. GENUNG, Local Editor and Manager. 



CRteAMERIES— EGGS AND POULTRY. 



227 



Higgins & KounsevsEv Speedsvilie, Tomp. 

Co., Berksuire 

BAKEE BROS., Nichols 

SPENCEE CEEAMEEY, 8. A Seely, 
projl. ; D. La M. Georgia, sup't; Lib- 
erty Bt., Spencer 
Crockery and Glassware. 
FAELEY & SANDEES, 231 Broad St., . 

Warerly, Barton 

HIBBAKD GEORGE E., 84 Front St., Owego 

Dentists. 
Nelaon Elmer, 251 Broad at., WaTerly, Barton 
Snook Frederick M., 281 Broad st., Wa- 

verlv, " 

VahDERLTP CHAELES T., 201 Broad 

St., Waverly, " 

Honse Willard E., Main St., Candor 

Fellows Russell S., Newark Valley 

DOWNS EDWIN D., 192 Front St., Owego 
HILL BROTHERS, Front St., 
Jackson John, 12 Lake St., " 

ItAYOR WILLIAM E., over 173 Front at., " 
Walker Eansoin, over 200 and 202 Front St.," 
Eawley George W., Main at., Richford 

Matteson George E., Main St., Spencer 

Anderson John J., r 12, Tioga 

Dressmakers . 

Aikins Jane, 118 Clark St., Waverly, Barton 
Beardslee Mary Mrs., 2 Ithaca St., Waverly," 
Beekman Emma, 127 Chemung st., Wa- 
verly, " 
Brooks Lizzie D., 12 Waverly St., Waverly, " 
Cooley Hattie J., North Barton, 
Dollason Frances H., " 
Palsey Sarah A., Clark st., Waverly, " 
French Carrie,. 314 Broad St., Waverly, " 
Miller Cassandra B., 482 Chemung St., 

Waverly, ■' 

Minnick J. H. Mrs., 28 Loder st., Waverly, " 
Murray Mary L., Pine St., Waverly, " 

Osterhout Katie, 23 Broad st., Waverly, " 
■Sargeant J. C. Mrs., 28 Orange St., 

Waverly, " 

Shaw Hulda J., 9 Waverly St., Waverly, " 
SHIPMAN PEELIE E., r 34, Waverly, " 
Shiolenburg Sarah, 304 Cheny St., 

Waverly, " 

Smith D. S. Mrs., 21 Fulton si, Waverly, " 
Strauss Huldah, 218 Broad st., Waverly, " 
Sullivan Anna. 105 Chemung st., Waverly, " 
Sullivan Etta, 315 Broad St., Waverly, '• 
Terry E. H. Mrs., 5 Penn. ave.. Waverly, " 
Tompkins Mary A., Factory ville, " 

VanDerlip Sisters, 24 Park ave., Waverly, " 
Williams Addle, 20 Clark St., Waverly, " 
Brown Sarah J., Candor 

Brown Mai-y A., Newark Valley 

Flannigau Susie, " 

Sears -Lizzie M., 

Beeves Elli^. Eiver st.; Nichols 

Scott Sisteffi, Cady ave. . " 

Bauer Elizabeth, 26 Adahne st., Owego 

Bowen Abby A., over Owego Nat. Bank, " 
Bryan Esther C, Spencer Blk. Lake St., 
Catlin Sarah E., 75 Talcott at., " 

Catliri Mary E., 75 Talcott St., " 

Cortright John Mrs., 201 E. Temple St., " 
Cole Ida M., 261 Erie St., " 

Donovan Mary A., 102 Paige at., " 

Dorsey Alma J,, 207 E. Temple at., " 

Dowd Anna E., 5 Park St., 
Earsley Belle Mrs., Commerce at., •' 



Edwards Susie, r 83, AtJalachin, Owego 

Greenwood Lizzie M., 80 William st.,. " 

Hickey Lizzie C, 399 Main st. " 

Hoagland Emma D., Buckbee Blk., ". 

Hodge EUa A., 86 Temple at., " 

Hogan Catherine M., eO^Delphine st., " 

Horgan Katie, 56 Delpliine «t., " 

Kelly Julia F., 246 E. Temple st., " 

Kingcade Charles Mrs., 90 Paige at., '.' 

Laird George H. Mra., Apalachm, " 

Ross Allie M. . 42 William St., " 

Rowe M. & G., 192 Front at., " 
Skellenger Emma E., 51 Forsyth St., 
Stever Amanda E. Mrs., over 78 North 

ave., " 

Wade L. N. Mrs., 175 North ave., " 

Whipple Sisters, 139 Main St.. " 

Wood Lydia, 76 Talcott St., " 
STEWART EMILY A, off r 12, Owego, Tioga 

Drugs and Medicines. 

Bennet Stephen, Broad st., Waverly, Bartoni 
Hayes H. H. 4 Son, 236 ^road St., 

Waverly, " 

Mullock Bros., 229 Broad st., Waverly, " 
SLAUGHTER & VAN ATTA, 233 Broad 

St., Waverly, " 

Tracy Edward G., 228 Broad St., Waverly '• 
HOLCOMB WALLACE, Berkshire 

Jennings James H., Front st., Candor 

Robs M.L. & Son, Main St., " 

Smith William B., Main st., " 

SMITH L. M. & SON, Newark VaUey 

Latham & Cady. Main st., Nichols 

BEACH & PARMELEE, Main cor. North 

ave., Owego- 

Beaumont John H., 135 North ave., " 

HOPKINS LANCY N., Apalachin, " 

JANSEN J. W. & Co., 60 North ave., " 

Kenyon Joel C, 5 Lake st., 
*STARKEY & WINTERS, cor. Front and 

WHITE & HUMI8T0N, 194 Front st., " 
Rawley Hiram B., Ricdaford 

Fisher Charles J., Main st., Spencer 

EMMONS LUCIUS E„ Main St., 
Blake William, Tioga Center, Tioga 

Dry Goods. 

KNAPP JOSEPH W., 203 Broad St., 

Waverly, Barton 

Murdoch E. N. & Co., 222 Broad st., 

Waverlv, " 
STOWELL HOLLIS E., 237 Broad at., 

Waverly, " 

WATROS BROS., 227 Broad St., Waverly, " 
Wilcox H. M. & Co., 218 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 
JOSLYN EDWARD, Main st., Nichols 
BaCKBEE.^PETEESON, WOOD &, CO., 

190 and 192 Front St., Owego 

GOODBICH & CO., 196 Front st.. 

Hall George H., 122 Main st., " 

HASTINGS & STEATTON, 186 Front St., "- 

Hulslander Levi S., 59 North ave. ". 

Hyde Earl Mrs., Main St., " 

Newman Bros., 31 and 33 Lake St., " 

Tuck Isaac, 198 Front St., " 

Taylor Eobert J., 377 Front st., " 

Eggs and Poultry. 

(See also Fancy Fowls, etc., Poultry Dealers.) 
ROBERTS JOHN 0.,(wholesale) Newark Valley 



228 EXPRESS AGENTS — GRIST, FLOURING MILLS AND DEALERS. 



Express Agents. 
HAGADOBN DnWITT C, Lookwood, Barton 
Kane Edwai-d jl., ■ , " 

Murdoch John K., (U. S.) Waverly, " ' 

BROWN FRAlifK W. , West Candor, , Candor 
BEATH FBANK L.,'Mam st. " 

Eookwood Lorenzo F., (U. S.) Newark Valley 
KIKBY ALLEN B., Nichols 

Hutohihs Frank F., (V. S. Ex.) 34 Lake St., 

Owego 
Mabee Foster N., (Erie Ex. Co.) 18 Lake st. " 
STEELE AARON, Apalachin, ' " 

Eich Luoien D., Eichford 

Mills Henry C, Speiicer 

Sanderson P. W. N., Tioga Center, Tioga 

Fertilizers. 

Bnshnell William B.; Berkshire 

HAET LEWIS A., Main St., Candor 

CAMPBELL AEBA, Taloott.st., Owego 

EEELER ALBERT H., Temple cor. Cen- 
tral ave., " 
Fl-orists and Seedsmen. 
(See also Seedsmen. 
AngeU Mary L., 472 Chemung at., Wa- 
verly, Barto^i 
3Dingee John T., 116 Lincoln St., Waverly, " 
THOMAS ALEXANDER J., Main st., Owego 

Furniture Dealers. 

HALL & LYON, 356 Broad st., Waverly, 

Barton 
Blawson Andrew A., Waverly, " 

Sweet C. W., Broad St., Wavei-ly, " 

WITTER F. A & CO., Berkshire 

Trost John O., Main st., Candor 

•CAEGILL WHJJAM, Newark Valley 

Neal N. E., Cady ave., Nichols 

HUBBARD & KING, 29 Lake St., Owego 

MatBon John L.. 183 Front St., " 

PBEECE WALLACE C, Eichford 

Bower Bros., Spencer 

Gents' Furnishing Goods. 

•(See also Clothing, also Dry Goods, also Gen- 
eral Merchants.) 
McDonald SABAH a Mes., 265 Broad 

St., Waverly, Barton 

PERKINS FEED C, 208 Main St., Wa- 
verly, " 
Salonsky Isaac, 224 Broad st., WaVerly, " 
/Goldstein Bros., Berkshire 
BANDLEE BOBERT, 19 and 21 Lake St., , 

Owego 
Berger Andrew F. F., Lake st., " 

Fairohild Samuel F., 27 Lake St., " 

General Merchants. 

(Who keep a general assortment of Dry 
•Goods, Groceries, Hardware, etc. See also 
Dry Goods, also Groeei-ies.) 
BINGHAM BROS., Lookwood, Barton 

■Cornell William, " 

Evarts Andrew J., Factoryville, " 

OILLETT WILLIS E., Eeniff, i' 

Gridley T. E. & Son, Main St., Paotory- 

ville, " 

VAIL A. V. C. & CO., Lookwood, 
WOOD JAMES C, Main st., Factoiyville, ' 
Wright & Cary, Main St., " 

Clark Horatio, Main cor. Depot sts., Berkshire 
DEWEY & DAEBONNIE, •' 

Eldrige B. 0. & Co., Main st., " 



Andrews WiUiaih HyPrdnt 81^ Candor 

Booth &WilIiaiiis, Front st.7' • (r~ 

Cooper Fred B., Strait's CorneWi, ' • " ■ 
Knapp'BorrD.,'Weltonville, ". 

McCAETHY a THOMPSON, Main st, '•> 
MEAD CHARLES, r 75, WeltonviUe, '. " 
Minor Christopher, r 30, WiUseyVille, " 

Orcutt William C, Owego st., " 

Owen WiUiam, r 29, ■ ■"■ 

Sawyer Luther, r 62, WeBt,Qindor, " 

Smith H. A., C&.tatpnk, r 133, ' ' 

VanDebogart Frank L., Main st., " 

Byington Alphonso, Newark Valley 

ELWELL WILLIAM, 

Finch Charles, Ketchumville, " 

FORD ALBERT N., 

Nixon John G., r 1, Jenksville' " 

RANDALL OSCAE S., 
BOYS & TODD, " 

BJiven Cranston, Main St., Nichols 

EDSALL JOHN E., Main St., " 

Sherwood Casper L. Main St., "^j 

Kinney & Gray, Apalachin, Owego' 

KNAPP CHARLES E., Apalachin, " 

SLEEPER & WHTrTAKER, Apalachin, " 
Rawley Hiraju B., Eichford 

Smith W. C. & Co., " 

Bradley Chas. E., Main st., Spencer 

DAY JOHN & SON, Main St., 
EMMONS ALFEEDS.. Van Etten St., 
FISHEE MAEVIN D Main St., 
Kellogg Mahlon A., North Spencer, " 

SEELY S. ALFEED, Academy St., " 

SHEPAED SYLVENES, Van Etten st., 
Sniffin WiUiam A., Main st., " 

Standlft Isaac S., Van Etten St., " 

Barber Ami W., Halsey Valley; Tioga 

Bonham Charles H., Main St., " 

Drake W. J. & Son, Main St., Smithboro, " 
Hoyt Fred. D., Halsey Valley, " 

Lollis Samuel C, Smithboro, " 

Martin Fred, Main st., Tioga Center, ," 

Southwick Mary J. Mrs., Halsey Valley, '' " 
Wheeler John N., Strait's Corners, " 

Grain Threshers. 

Albright Adam, North Barton, " 

Hoover William, r 41, Barton 

Cooper & Thornton, r 62 West Candor, Candor 
Coon A. H. & W. I., Strait's Corners, " 

DU MOND DAVID, 

Hulslander Sylvester, r 101, " 

MEAD WILLIS A., r 70, 
Mix John C. WiUseyville, r 1, • " 

BUECH <& Wells, Newark Valley 

Nichols John E., East Nichols, Nichols 

BLOW FRANK L., r 95, Owego 

Camp Orin, r 54, " 

EYANT E. & J. P., r 20. North Spen- 
cer, Spencer 
Smith & Truesdail, r 44, Owego, Tioga 

Grist and Flouring Mills and Dealers. 

BINGHAM EEC'S, Lookwood, Barton 

Manning Fred. B., Halsey Valley, " 

Waverly Steam Flouring Mills, (J. C. 

Shear prop.) 800 Broad St., Waverly, " 
BEEKSHIEE FLOUEING MILLS, Berkshire 
Bushnell WilUam B., " 

Hart Samuel L., (grist) SpeedsviUe 

• Tomp. Co., r 18, ■< 

BAEEOTT SAMUEL E., r 82, Weltou- 

■fille, Cauddr 

Candor Mill, A. Beebe prop. Main st. " 



GRIST, FLOURING MILLS AND DEALERS— HARNESS, TRUNKS. 229 



Hoff Lewis B., Main Bt, '■ Candor 

HUBBARD WILLIAM H., r 98, " 

JENKSVILLE STEAM MILL, 0. D. Nix- 
on, prop., Jenkaville, Newark Valley 
Moses Philander P., (custom) " 
White George W., (custom) Jenksville, " 
Williams Liloius E., (feed) " 
Dunham's Mills, Oaleb Wright, prop., 

r 8, Nichols 

HUNT ADONIJAH. r 37, Owego, " 

NICHOLS STEAM ELOUB mQjLS, John 

Penderson, prop., " 

Beeman Horace W., (feed) r 116, Owego 

Curtis Harmpn, r 35, Gaskill Corners, " 
DOEWIN, BICH & STONE, office 177 

Front St.. . " 

Ellis Nathan H., r 40, " 

POSTEB LEONARD, (feed) r 27, '' 

Kile George O., (feed) r 95, " 

Terbush Lancelotl B., (feed) r 16, Plem» 

ingriUe, " 

Weed J. D. & G. W., (Custom) " 

Bliss Franklin, Bichford 

. HARFORD MILLS, Granger Francis & 
■* Son, props., " 

PERRY EDWIN A., r 43, " 

Wilbur James F., " 

HAGADORN DAVID B. , r 57, Spencer 

SEELY S. ALFRED, " 

Franklin Burton B., r 52, Tioga Center, Tioga 
JONES STEPHEN W., r 9, Owego, " 

Leach Stephen W., Owego, " 

Tuthill Joseph M., Smithboro. " 

Groceries and Provisions. 

(See also General Merchants. 
BABNE8 & MILLEE, 227 Broad st., Wa- 

verly, . Barton 

FARLEY & SANDERS, 231 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

Geronld B. &, Co., Ill Broad St., Waverly, " 
Gibbons James S., 246 Broad St., Waverly, " 
HaUet & Son, 245 Broad St., Waverly, " 
HANFORD & LORD, 222 Broad st., Wa^ 

verly, " 

Hart Brothers, 205 Broad st^, Waverly, ■' 
Hem John, 117 Broad St., Waverly, " 

Parsons & Freestone, 207 Broad St., Wa- 
verly,' " 
Persona E. Delos, 206 Broad st., Waverly, " 
Qnigley Michael, 263 Broad St., Waverly, " 
Sager & Munn, 234 Broad st., Waverly.. " 
SEELY WILLIAM F., 257 Broad st., Wa^ 

verly, " 

SWAIN LESTER, Fulton St., Waverly, 
Stevens Samuel, r 46, Lookwood, " 

WALKER LEANDER, 253 Broad St., " 

WALKER T. S. & Son, 250 and 252 Broad 

St.. Waverly, " 

WAVERLY CAfeH STOBE, 227 Broad St., 

Waverly, . " . 

HOLCOMB WALLACE,. Berkshire 

Bush Abftm R. WiUseyville, Candor 

Fister John W., Main st., " 

JACKSON DWIGHT P^ Main st. , " 

O'Brien Thomas, r 30, WiUseyville, " 

WardweU & Cooper, r 62, West Candor, " 
White Morgan A.,. WiUseyville.., „-■ , " , 

Woodard Mary G., r 82, WeltonviUe, " 

BENTON WILLIS S., r 1, JenksviUe, 

Newark Yalley 
-OiiaiJuian- Lyman F.,- - - '. - ."■• 
BOBEETS JOHN O., 
ANTHONY FLOYD H., Main st., ; Nichols 



Van Ness BeUe H. Mrs., Main st., Nichols-- 

CorneU H. W. <fc Son, 405 Main st., Owego. 

Cortright Albert, North ave. " 

Cortright Theodore, 64 North ave. " 

Curtis Harmon, r 35, Gaskell's Corners,' ' ' 

Dickinson MoKenzie, r 54, Campville, " 

DUGAN JOHN, 173 Front St.. « 
GREEN A. L. <fc R. D. r 26, GaskeU's 

Corners, " 

Hyde &, Winters, Front cor. Court sts., " 

Johnson Edward J„ 100 North ave. " 

KNAPP WILBUR F., Apalachin, " 

Lake Thomas B., 119 North ave., " 

Leach Benjamin C, North ave., " 
Leahy Patrick'* Son, Main cor North ave., " 

Maroney John F.. 56 North ave. "• 

MHiLREA BROTHEES, 178 Front St., " 

Olmstead Seth, r 40, " 

Raymond Mary F., 199 Main st., " 

Searles J. F. & Son, 136 North ave., " 

Shays Jonas, 72 North ave., " 

Shaw & Eingrose, Lake cor. Main sts., " 

Sheldon & Yates, 131 North av», " 

SMITH CHAELES F., 172 Front St., " 

Steele G. OdeU, 177 Front St., " 

Thurston Chester P., 176 Front St., " 

Thurston Frederick G., 130 North ave., " 

Truman Benjamin L., 182 Front St., " 

Wade George N., West ave., " 

Wheeler John, r 54, Campville, " 
MILLER WILLIAM F.,Main st., Bichford' 
Bowen Seth, Spencer 

Dir JOHN & HON, Main st., " 

Nichols David A., Main st., " 

Van Marter Enos T., r 35, " 

Hair Goods. 

PELLUM MARGARET H, 459 Main at., 

Owego- 
Yost Mary E. Mrs., over Owego National 
Bank,. ■ " 

Hardware, Stoves and Tinware. 

(See also General Merchants.) 
CLAEK JAMES A., 217 Broad at., • 

Waverly, Barton 

EATON D. H. & SONS, FaotoryviUe, " 

MEBEIAM BEOS., 235 Broad St.. Waverly, " 
WITTER F. A. & CO., Berkshire 

OHIDSEY JOHN E., Candor 

DeGraw John,Main st., " 

HEATH HENRY D., Main St., " 

CHAPMAN EDGAR E., Newark VaUey 

HUTCHINSON HOEACE W., " 

Coleman & Horton, Main st., Nichols 

Everitt Fred M., " 

HOUK JONATHAN S., 184 Main St., Owego 
KNAPP FEANK J. , Apalachin, • ' 

STANBROUGH JOHN B. , 180 Front at., " 
STOBES, CHATFIELD & CO., Front cor. 

Lake at., " 

Swift Charles H, Main at., Bichford 

DAY JOHN & SON, Main at., Spencer 

Harness, Trunks, etc. 

Deuel Amos E., 250 Broad st., Waverly, Barton 
Nelson Phineas, 127 Broad at., Waverly, " 
BQLLEY HIBAM, Berkshire 

Hubalston Morria, BaUroad at., Candor 

PIEESQN CHAELES O. Newark VaUey 

Smead David J., 150 Front St., Owego. 

.WiUiams John E., Apalachin, " 

Wyman William, 112 North ave., " 

BAENES GEANT W., , , ■ Bichford. 



230 



TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



^m- 



-THE- 



-w^ 



WayerlyFreePress 



ESTilBLISHEI] DCTDBER 15j 1BB7, 



WAVERLY, TiOQA County, N. Y. 

JAMES B. BRAY, Editor and Proprietor. 



Published i Every t Saturday i- at + 50 -t Gents + per + Year. 



The Best and Cheapest Paper in Tioga County, 



And is the only home-printed paper in Waverly. 



HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION, 

Therefore is the Best Advertising Medium. Sample Copies and Rates of 
Advertising furnished on application. 



Rne Iok)(J)HQl:iQ^a^|®eeialty 



Excelled by none in Southern New York. 



<»F=\-7I-I- LINE OI= STATION ERVKi- 



HARNESS, TRUNKS, ETC. — JEWELRY, WATCHES, ETC. 23 1 



SNOOK DATJD L., Main at, Spencer 

HamUton George, Halsey Valley, Tioga 

Hats, Caps and Furs. 

(See Clothiers, also General Merchants.) 
PEBKINS FEED C, 208 Main st., Wa- 

Terly, Barton 

BANDLEB EGBERT, 19 and 21 Lake 

St., Owego 

Fairchild Samuel F., 27 Lake St., " 

Smith James L., 8 Lake St., " 

Hay and Grain. 
Barnum & Fersonlus, 261 Broad st., 

Waverly, Barton 

BAILEY W. H. & CO., 164 North ave., Owego 
SPEEKS WILLIAM S., 207 North ave., " 
STEDMAN WHEELER, r 40, Flemingvme, " 

Hotels. 
American House, A. P. Head, prop., 260 

Broad st., Waverly, Barton 

Central House, P. D. Tooker, prop.. 

Factory ville, " 

Christie House, W. H. Goldsmith, prop., 

Fulton stj^ Waverly, " 

Commercial Hotel, D. S. Kennedy, prop., 

Fulton cor. Ehzabeth sts. , Waverly, 
Gilbert House, Mrs, Eva J. Gilbert, prop., 

Lookwood, " 

HOTEL WABFOED, Wadsworth & Kel- 

sey, props., Broad cor. Fulton, 

Waverly, " 

Jackson House, A. Jackson, prop.. Fac- 
tory viUe, " 
Johnson House, E. J. Johnson, prop.. 

Main st., " 

Temperance Hotel, MUes Forman, prop., ' • 
TIOGA fiOTEL, Ackley & Bailey, props., 

Fulton Cor. Elizabeth, Waverly " 

BEEKSHIBE HOUSE, Ira Crawford, 

prop., Berkshire 

ALLEN HOUSE, Iddo Vergason, prop.. 

Main St., " 

ASHLAND HOUSE, Frank J. Norton, 

prop.. Main St., Candor 

DIMMICK HOUSE, Dimmick & Young, 

props., Newark Valley 

Ketchum's Hotel, Seneca Ketohum, prop., 

r 12, KetchumviUe, Newark Valley 

NICHOLS HOTEL, J. Piatt, prop., 

Kiver st., Nichols 

AH-WA-GA HOUSE, B. J. Davis, prop.. 

Front cor. Church sts., Owego 

Central House, Alanson Goodenow, prop., 

Apalaohin, " 

CENTRAL HOUSE, W. G. Gardner, 

mgr., Main cor. Lake sts., " 

COBTBIGHT HOUSE, J. A. Cortright 

& Son, props., 157 North ave., " 

X)UGAN HOUSE, Charles B. Dugan, 

prop., 139-145 Front St., " 

EUROPEAN HOUSE, John Hayes, prop., 

151 North ave;, " 

EXCHANGE HOTEL, John 8. Ryan, 

prop., Apalaohin, 
FLEMINGVELLE HOTEL, Mrs. Eunice 

E. HaU, prop., r 40, FlemingvUle, " 

Hiawatha House, (summer) Hiawatha 

Island. 
Lackawanna House, Ira J. VanDemark, 

prop., 176 River, South Side, " 

Park Hotel, Nichols <fc Huber, props. -,161 

Mainst., " " 

Thomas Samuel H., 54 South Depot St., " 



RICHFOKD HOTEL, H. W. Theleman, 

prop., Richford 

GROVE HOTEL, C. J. Bice, manager, 

opp. G. I. & S. depot, Spencer 

VANMARTER HOUfflE, J. VanKeuren, 

prop.. Main st., " 

Erie Hotel, Cornelius CurkendoU, prop., 

Smithboro, Tioga 

Halsey VaUey House, Mrs. Jane P. Hig- 

gins, prop., Halsey Valley, " 

Lovell House, Smithboro, " 

Tioga Center Hotel, Moses Ohart, prop., 

Main St., Tioga Center, " 

Iilsarance Agents. 

BEQOKS CHAELES C, 201 Broad st., 

Waverly. Barton 

Escelsior Mutual Benefit Association,' 

201 Broad St., Waverly, ■' 

FAIECHILD & THOMAS, First Nat. 

Bank Bld'g, Waverly, " 

HaUett Joseph E., 409 Chemung St., 

Waverly, * " 

Lemon Israel G., (flre and life) 245 Broad 

st^ Waverly, " 

LUM DANIEL J. , Waverly st. , Waverlv, ' ' 
Tew William E., 214'Broad st., Waverly, " 
Johnson Eugene F., agt. r 6, Berkshire 

Bishop James (fire and life) Main St., Candor 
BOOTH HORACE F., Main St., " 

KETCHUM WILLIAM P., Kinney st., 
ROBINSON ALDICE A., (flre and life) 

Main St., " 

Eoyal Morris B., Owego St., " 

SPAULDING U. P., (flre and life) Main 

st " 

HUNt'lEWIS, Newark Valley 

FAY GEORGE W..- 203 Front st., Owego 

HOSKINS WATSON L., 185 Front st.. 
Laird George H., Apalaohin, " 

LEONARD GEORGE S., 209 Front st., " 
Snyder George, (life) over 63 North ave., " 
STEBBINS BAENEY M., 34Lake.st., " 

VAN KLEECK JOHN J., Court House, " 
HiUigas Joshua, (life) Tompkins ave., Spencer 
Manchester Henry H., (life) r 47, 

Owego, Tioga 

Iron Founders and Macbiuists. 

LEMON JAMES, Broad st, Waverly, Barton 
CANDOR IRON WORKS, H. F. Booth 

prop. Candor 

*CAULDWELL & GEAY, (engines, boU- 

ers, castings, &c.,) McMaster cor. 

Delphine, Owego 

Jewelry, Watches, Etc. 

Harris George L., 2 Fulton st., Waverly, 

Barton 
Knapp David D., 211 Broad St., Waverly, " 
MaiidevUle Mahlon H., 228 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

Hartwell Warren T., Main St., Candor 

FRANK CHARLES, Newark Valley 

Tripp Seymour C, Main St., Nichols 

COMFORT MELVILLE L ., 25 Lake st •, Owego 
DURUSSEL & SON, 35 Lake St., 
HOSKINS WATSON L., 185 Front st. , " 
STARR CHAELES P., 15 Lake St., " 

Rawley George W., Main st., Richford 

Dumond Harry, Main St., Spencer 

Sagar Willard J., Main St., " 



232 LAtJNDRIES-^tUMBER MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS. 



IJaundries. 

Tioga Laundry, Geo. B. -Witter prop. 

113 Broad St., Waverly, Barton 

Bing Wah, (Chinese Laundry) 71 North 

ave., Owego 

Casey Thomas F., 210 Front at., " • 

CITY STEAM LAUIJDEY, 83 North ave., " 

Lawyers. 

ALLEN ADOLBHUS G., 203 Broad fit., 

Waverly, Bai^bn 

Allen D. Wellington. Waverly, " 

EATON AMBROSE P., Exchange Blk.. 

Main St., Waverly, ■' 

Flovd Jacob B., Broad St., Waverly, " 

SHOEMAKER JUDGE F., 214 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

WARNEK WILLIAM F., Waverly, '' 

Scott Elbert O., Main St., Candor 

BIEBER BOMAINE F., Newark YaUey 

ANDREWS GEOEGE F., 214 Front St., Owego 
CAMP GEOEGE SIDNEY, 132 Front St., " 
CLARK C. A. & H. A, Academy Bldg., 

Court St., " 

EASTON DAVID T,, over 168 Front st., " 
GLEZEN OSCAR B., Academy Bldg., 

Court, St., " 

GROSS JERRY 8., 178 Main St., " 

Hill Fred C.^ Court House, " 

,Lvnch Martin T., Lake cor. Main St.. " 

MEAD & DAEROW, Main cor. North ave., " 
NIXON CHARLES D., Fi-ont cor. Court st. " 
Oaklev Timothy B., 214 Front St., " 

OH-^LBT S. JAY, Academy Bldg., Court, " 
PAEKEE CHARLES E., Court House, " 
SEARS JOHN G., Lake cor. Main St., " 

SETrEL LYMAN L.,Poat-Offioe Bldg., " 
TAYLOE JOHN J., Front cor. Court St.. " 
Watkins Charles D., over 168 Front St., " 
ROBINSON CALYIN J.. Richford 

DEAN EDWARD E., Main St., Spencer 

Pooie Murray, Smithboro, Tioga 

Livery Stables. 

Atwater DeWitt C, Clark St., Waverly, Barton 
Bt-utley Abram W., Broad St., Waverly, " 
Higadorn Henry, 2 Broad st., Waverly, " 
LASSLY ELIJAH M., Clark cor. Broad 

St., Waverly, " 

Tozer John F.. Fulton St., Waverly, " 

ROCKFELLER CHARLES H., Main St., 

CHIDSEY &EORGE C. Main st.. Candor 

GRIFFIN N. W., Main St., " 

HOLLISTER WARREN L.. Main st., " 

ANIHONY FLOYD H., Main St., Nichols 

DEAN CALVIN B., Church st., Owego 

COYLE WILH4.M, 73 North ave., " 

FORGASON THADDEUS, Central ave., " 
Ford Lewis; 132 North ave., " 

WEEKS JOSHUA P., Water st., Spencer 

Live Stock Breeders and Dealers. 

Coleman Jedediah D., (dealer) Barton 

BLACKMAN ABEAM,< (dealer) Berkshire 

Blown Robert C, (breeder) r 38, " 

CROSS LOUIS J., (horse breeder) 
Kimball & Stannard, (horse breeders) r 35, " 
LEGG ERASMUS D., SpeedsviIle,JT<Mnp. 

Co., (breeder) " 

Lynch Theodore, (dealer)' " 

MAYOR THEODORE & SONS, (dealers 

and breeders) r 38, " 

PATCHHENRYW.,(dealerinhorseB)r 39, " 
STARKEY dc iriNXERS, Wbolesale 



ROYCE GEOEGE C, (breeder of horses) 

Main st.. Berkshire 

SHAW WHXIAM T., (breeder) r 5, " 

Shepard James, r 3, (breeder of horses) " 
SIMMONS WILLIAM E., (breeder of 

horses) Jenksville, r 41, " 

BARROTT AMMIEL W., (breeder and 

dealer) r 120, Candor 

Holmes John, (dealer) " 

HOWARD HIBAM O., (horse breeder) r 

118, - 
McCay Edwin C, JenksviUe, r 49, (dealer) " 
Miller Fred, WeltonviUe, (dealer) r 120, " 
PETERS CHAELES G., (breeder and 

dealer) r 65, 
Sohofleld Truman, West Candor, (dealer) 

r 62, 
SEAMAN LbGEAND, (dealer) r 89, " 

Stinard Sylvester, JenksviUe, r 50, 

(breeder) " 

Ward Oswald J., (dealer) •' 

Webster Edwin, (breeder and dealer) r 

132, Owego, " 

Whitney Joseph S., (dealer) " 

Bieber jhilip, (dealer) r 42, Newark Valley 
Holmes Jerome D., (horse dealer) " 

SMITH ALFEED, (horse breeder) r 51, 

JenksviUe, " 

Briggs Herman I., (dealer) off r 9, ' Nichols 
INGEESOLL GEOEGE A., rlO, (breeder) " 
LOWMAN FREDERIC C. (breeder) r3, " 
CAMP GUERDON H., (horse) Apalachin, Owego 
Delavan Irving J., (dealer) Front St., " 
HOLMES BROS., (horses) Apalachin, " 
LaMonte David M., (horse breeder) r 68, " 
MARSHLAND STOCK FARMS, B. F. 
Tracy & Son, prop., (breeders) r 69, 
Apalachin, " 

McCofferty Anthony C, (horses) Euro- 
pean House, " 
Sherwood George J., (breeder) r 106, 

Apalachin, " 

Town WiUiam P., (horses) r 122, South 

Owego, " 

Tracy Harvey J., (breeder) r 83, Apa- 
lachin, " 
Clark Charles A., (horses) Eichford 
Curtis Charles F., (breeder and dealer) 

r 39 " 

FINCH 'CHAELES R., (breeder) horses, " 
Finch Philander W., (dealer) " 

GOODRICH WILLIAM S., " 

Jennings Henry A., (breeder and dealer) 

r 35, " 

Meloy Frank P., (breeder and dealer) r 33, " 
Sears James M., (breeder and dealer) r 16, " 
Smith Ealph P., (breeder and dealer) r 35, " 
WATKINS AMOS G., (dealer) 
Eoda Frederick C, r 9, Spencer 

BEOCK JOHN, r 42, " 

Shepard J. Q. & G. T., r 28, 
SHAW W. HULSE, (breeder Holstein) 

r 28, Owego, Tiog» 

Lumber Manufacturers and Dealers. 

(See also Saw Mills.) 

ANDRE ABRAM T., (contractor) Look- 
wood, Barton 

BALDWIN HUGH, Broad n Penn. ave., 
Waverty, " 

Dodge Ira G.,Waverlv, " 

HAGADOEN DeWITT C, (fence-posts 
and B. E. ties) Lockwood, ' ' 

and Retail Drngglsta, Owego. 



LUMBER MFG'RS'AND DEALERS— MEAT MARKETS, BUTCHERS. 233; 



Ball JohKj .; Berkshire 

JAPHET kiLOG., .■ 

Williams George, " 

Booth Brothers, (QianuftB. and dealers) 

r 56, - Candor 

Little William L., Main st., " 

EYAN JOHN, mu st., , " 

VAN DEUSEB H. A M., r 133, Catatonk, " 
Tan Vleet Theodore, (dealer) Main St., " 
TEEGASON 80L0MAN, (dealer) r 112, " 
CLINTON EOYAL W., Newark VaUey 

Williams Lucius E., " 

OLAPP SAMUEL, Eiver St., Nichols 

Hill Charles 0., 89, Central ave., Owego 

*HOUSE E. H., 299, MoMaster St.. " 

*OWEGO CEUCIFOEM CASKET' CO., 

42, 44 and 46 Delphine St., " 

STEDMANWHEELEE,r40,Flemingvme, " 
ALLEN J. W., r 18, Biohford 

■FINCH H. S. & C. W., " 

EASTHAM SAMUEL, r 37, West Candor, 

Spencer 
Hall H. S., r 38, " 

McMaster J. 0. & J. T., " 

Marble and Granite Workers and 

DONLEY BEOS., ' Newark Valley 

HAYWOOD CHABLES M., 80 North 
ave,, Owego, and 107 Broad st., 
Waverly, Barton 

SPENCEE MAEBLE WOEKS, L. E. 

Baker, prop.. Academy St., Spencer 

Masons and Builders. 
(See also Architects and Builders, also Car- 
penters and Builders, and Contractors 
and Builders. J 
Curran Horace H,, Waverly, Barton 

Curran John J., Waverly, " 

DAILEY WILLIAM E., Spring st., 

Waverly, ■' 

ISLEY & SONS, 36 Waverly st., Waverly, " 
Jones George, off r 60, Factoryville, " 

McINTYEE ALBEET J., Lincoln st,, 

Waverly, " 

MOEGAN FEED S., Clark st., Waverly, " 
MOEGAN JOHN W., 112 Lincohi st., 

Waverly, "' 

SHEEMAN CHAELES W., 428 Chemnng 

St., Waverly, " 

Sherman James, r 64, Waverly, " 

Sherman John H., r 64, Waverly, " 

SMEATON THOMAS, 152 Clark St., 

Waverly, 
CHUECH OEEIS, r 29, Berkshire 

Smith Emory J., Eailroad St., " 

Braman Jesse H., Candor 

Cortright Franklin, Weltonville, " 

COWLES JAMES C, r 91, 
FIELD EICHAED, Mountain ave., 
GibbonsJFrank, 
Keelerjjilhelbert B., r 94, 
MafHe David, r 91, 

Merrick Abner. r 13, Speedsville, Tomp.Co.," 
Perrine Daniel H.,T 134, , " 

GOODFELLOW HEZEKIAH, r 40J^, 
, Newark Valley 

HILLIGA8 LOEENZO D., ' ' " 

Neal Harvey, (stone) ^[ 

Perry George, (stone) ^'^ 

Searles Ezra, r 61, 

THOENTON C. FEANK, (stone) " 

Keech Miles W., r 46, Nichols 

Sullivan Dennis O., 
STARKEY & iriNXKKS, Drnffglsts, 



Williams Stephen, r 8, ' Nichols- 

Obnklin Lewis Di; r 60, Owego 

Cragan John, Apalachin,, " 

Eckler Marvin, (stone) 188 West ave., " 

Howe Eufus C., Main St., " 

Kaley William H., 177 Main st., /' 

Keeler Charles P., 68 Paige st„ " 

LUlie William, r 108, Apalachin, ' " 

Lynch Michael, 7 Fulton st., " 

McDonald John, 18 W. Main st., " 

Mott Israel D., r 54, " 

Noonan Daniel, Paige st., " 

EuUson George P., Apalachin, " 
Sohopp Francis A., Eiver Eoad, South 

SHe 

Schopp Peter, Eiver Eoad, South Side, " 1 

Searles George, r 4, FlemingviUe, " 

Searles Nathan P., r 16J^, PlemingyiUe, " ' 

Shehan Timothy, 105 Paige St., " ,' 

SkiUman David, 219 North ave., "' 

Van Fleet James, " 

Vinoelett John, 79 Forsvth St., " 

Ward Ezra, South Side" " 

White Davis, 154 Front St., " 
NiguB Judson, (stone) r 7, Eichford. 

Morton William, r 10, " 
MEACHAM JAMES W., (brick) r 37, 

MEACHAM OEEIN W., r 37, " 
Burdick Peter, r 42, Spencer - 

Cortright Ayres D., r 54, Halsey Valley, " 

Deyo Chaunoey, r 33, " 

Goodrich Calvin J., " 

Hike W. Harvey, " 

House John P., " 

Newman Daniel, " 

Shaw William, r 54, " 

Vorhis J. Wallace, " 

Delano Charles, r 28, Owego,. Tioga 

Leonard George, r 51, Tioga Center, " 

Mallery George, Smithborp, " 

Mallery Henry, Smithboro. " 

Stewart Delos, off r 12, Owego, " 
STEWAET EDWAED, off r 12, Owego, 

Watkins John, Smithboro, " 

Wright William, Tioga Center, " 

Meat Markets And Butchers. 

Boda & Dimmiok, 231 Broad St., Waverly, 

Barton 
Carr & Teachman, 119 Broad st., Waverly, " 
DorsettifcFaulkner,215Broad st.,Waverly, " 
Hanna Lorentes J., Main St., Factoryville," 
Miller Samuel W., 248 Broad St., Waverly,' " 
Pike Grove N., 109 Broad St., Waverly, '■ 
PUFF & WILLIAMS, Fulton st., Waverly, " 
Stevens Samuel, r 46, Lockwood, " 

WILCOX & BAEEOWS, 271 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

PEENTICB NOEMAN A., (fish) Main St., 

Berkshire 
MILKS WILLIAM J., -Spencer st., Candor 
BYINGTON SHEEMAN W., Newark VaUey 
JAYNE & BALL, 

Waterman Walter S,-, Main st., Nichols 

Lake Thomas B., 119 North ave., Owego 

MILLEEiL BEOTHEES, 178 Front st. , " 
Shays George, 82 North ave.. " 

STEVEE PETEE, 74 North ave., " 

WEBSTEE GILBEET E., 133 North ave., " 
White Charles', 36 Lake st., " 

Cashaday Guy, Main st., Spencer- 

Osborn John, " 

Watkins William H., Tioga Center, Tioga. 
Owego. Close Prices to Dealers. 



:234 TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



I I 



TlOGH (?OUNTY IJERaLt) 



PUBLISHED WEEKLY AT 



NEWARK VALLKY, N. Y. 



CHARLES li. NOBLE and G. E. PURPLE, 

PUBLISHERS AND PROPRIETORS. 



AN INDEPENDENT FAMILY NEWSPAPER, DEVOTED 
TO HOME INTERESTS AND GENERAL NEWS. 



SUBSCRIPTION PRICE, $1.25 PER YEAR 

IF PAID IN ADVANCE. 





Of all kinds done in the Best Style and at the Lowest Prices. 



MILK DEALERS — PIANO TUNERS. 



235 



Milk Dealers. 

ALLEN JOHN, Waverly, 
3UCK LYMAN, Waverly, 
Boyt Joseph N., Wiverly, 
"Warner JoUn A., r 65, Waverly, 
Eoper Frank H., r 18, Owego, 
SMITH JOHN JE., r 18, Owego, 
Moody Chas. E., r 42, 



Barton 



Barton 
NioholB 
tt 

Spencer 

Milliners, Millinery and Fancy 
Goods. 

JDelaney Joeie E., 211 Broad st., 

Waverly, JBarton 

Jlannlng E. W. Mrs., 249 Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

Horgan George Mrs., 16 Johnson St., 

Waverly, " 

'TANNERY IDA, 233 Broad st., Waverly, " 
Walsh Maggie, 232 Broad St., "Waverly, " 
Ward & Van "vleet Misses, Candor 

Broagham (Helen & Sarah) Newark Valley 
Holladay Anna M,, " 

JOSLYN EDWAED, Main St., Nichols 

Van Demark Emma Mrs., Main st., " 

Brown Delia, 67 North ave., Owego 

BUCKBEE, PETEESON, WOOD & CO., 

190 <fc 192 Front st., " 

-Oilman N. M. Mrs., 204 Front St., " 

Manning Caroline M., 206 Front St., " 

Newman Brothers, 31 and 33 Lake st.. " 
TAPLE 0. A. MES., Main St., Bichford 

Abbey Lizzie, Main St., Spencer 

Garatt S. C, Van Etten St., " 

Millwrights. 

Houghtaling Burt, Berkshire 

•Cleveland George M., r 1, WillseyviUe, Candor 
Starkweather Joel, Pond St., " 

Stevens Aaron C, r 41, Newark Valley 

"Wiggins George, r 8, Nichols 

Leonard John B., r 35, Eichford 

.Smith Julins C, " " 

Thomas John D., r 7l, Smithboro, Tioga 

Music and Musical Instruments. 

BEOWN CHARLES E., 267 Broad st:, 

Waverly, Barton 

Slawson Jeremiah M-, 202 Broad st., 

'Waverly, " 

BACON GEORGE G.. dealer, r 65, Candor 
DeGroat J. DeWitt, (pianos) r 67, Owego 

Leach Benjamin C, North ave., " 

SIGNOE ALBERT, 207 Front St., " 

SPENCER WILLIAM H., 220 E. Tem- 
ple St., " 
'Thompson John M., 107 North ave., " 
HOAGLIN MARVIN A., r 43, Eichford 

Music Teachers. 

: Speh Charles Prof., Waverly, Barton 

-PendeH Mary E. 0., Waverly, '• 

BACON GEOEGE G., r 65, Candor 

(Dapie Adam, r 104, " 

Humiston John H., Main St., " 

-Looey Charles E., " 

-Bajlou Wendell D., r 56 1-2, Owego 

Benner Louise E.,'Apalaphin, " 
DruckenmiUer Charles Prof., 73 Liberty, " 
JOHNSON FEANCES M., 459 Main st., •' 

Leach Tillie C, North ave., ■ ■ " 

Pultz Griffin, jr., 51 Fox st., " 

JPurdy Emma D., 147 Main St., " 

Jutman Louis H., 425 Main St., " 

Terry Prank, T 44, Eichford 



Painters and Paper Hangers. 

(See also Artists.) 
Bostwick Silas W.,Waverly St., Waverly, Barton 
Keeler Thomas, Broad st., Waverly, " 

Lyon Alonzo, Waverly, " 

Salisbury Thomas L., 130 Waverly st., 

Waverly, " 

Shter Warren, Faotoryville, " 

Smith S. Charles, Broad c. Pine, Waverly, " 
Stuart Will E., Main St., " 

Toppen Henry, 114 Waverly st., Waverly, " 
CROSS LEWIS J., Berkshire 

HAY HENRY L., " 

Carpenter Harry L., (house) WeltonviUe, 

Candor 
Sarson John C. F., (house) r 3, " 

Stevens Andrew T., r 3, " 

Hooker Charles B., Newark Valley 

Howard Urial A., " 

Sturtevant David M., (carriage) " 

EHsworth El win T., Nichols 

JOHNSON HOEACB A., 52 George St., Owego 
EOMINE CHAELES F* 121 Erie St., " 

Eomine Clarence W., 119 Chestnut st., " 
ROMINE EDWIN B., (house and decor- 
ative) Opera House Block, " 
EOMINE PEROIVAL H., (house and 

ornamental) 81 Fox St., " 

WEBSTER GEOEGE H., 242 E. Temple 

St., " 

Hopkins Daniel H., Main St., Eichford 

GUINNIP DEMPSTEE N., Brooklyn 

St., Spencer 

GUINNIP GEOEGE, Brooklyn St., " 

Maine William F., " 

Eoberts James A., Smithboro, Tioga 

Patent Medicine Manufacturers. 
Butte Henry S., 204 Penn ave., Waverly, 

Barton 
Carey Daniel G., Broad St., Waverly, " 

Peddlers. 
Bently George, off r 39, Barton 

Stanton Elisha W., Speedsville. Tomp. 

Co., r 18, , Berkshire 

Phipps George, r 12, Ketchumville, 

Newark VaUey 
Bush James L., Constines Lane, 
Hayes Michael J., 185 E. Temple si., 
Perkins Barney, r 89^, Apalachin, 
Eeynolds Smith, 133 North ave., " 

Damson John, Liberty st., Spencer 

Morse Dana, " 

Edwards Samuel, r 9, Owego, Tioga 

Lookwood Charles, Tioga Center, " 

Photographers. 
Comstock A. B., 208 Broad st., Waverly, 

Barton 
Mead Tabatha J. Mrs., 204 Broad st„ 

Waverly, '• 

♦HARGRAVE WILLIAM G., 38 and 40 

Lake St., Owego 

Jackson John T., 12 Lake st., " 

Lovejoy Charles L., Front cor. Court sts., " 
Clapp Walker G., Van Etten st., Spencer 

liitzler Charles C, r 48, " 

Piano Manufactures. 
SPOREE, CARLSON & BEEEY, 58 

North ave., Owego 

Piano Tuners. 
Carlson John M., 63 Paige St., Owego 

VICKEEY CHARLES S., 84 Paige St., " 



236 PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS — PRODUCE' (COUNTRY) DEALERS. 



Physicians and Surgeons. 

Beach Eliza J., 208 Penn. ave., Waverly, 

Barton 
CANFIELD EZRA, Lockwood, " 

Cook Daniel, r 55, " 

Hamden Daniel D., 7 Waverly at., 

Waverly, " 

Hamden Eufus S., 31 Fulton St., Waverly, " 
Johnson Parmeous A., 14 Pennsylvania 

ave., Waverly, " 

JOHNSON WILLIAM E., Waverly st., 
. Waverly, " 

Tucker John T., Waverly, '' 

Tyrrell Augustus, 222 Broad St., Waverly, ". 
Tosburgh Henry P., Halsey Valley, " 

Treeland Isaac S., 229 Broad St.. Waverly, " 
EASTMAN RALPH D., Main st., Berkshire 
Gay Isaac W., Main St., " 

Walter Joseph S., r 27 cor. 11, " 

Chidester Chauncey W., Weltonville, Candor 
DIXON JOHN C. Main st., " 

HARRIS ALGERNON J., Main st. " 

Miller Daniel S., Main st., " 

Osburn Arthur, r 116, 

ROPER WILLIAM E., Owego St., " 

BISHOP FRANCIS M., Newark Valley 

BURR WILLIAM J., 

ROGERS CORNELIUS R., " 

Tappan Revere C, , " 

Cady George M., River st., Nichols 

CADY GEORGE P., River St., " 

Allen Lucivis H., 140 Main St., Owego 

AYEE WARREN L., 207 E. Main St., " 

Ayers Charles, r 94, " 

BARRETT JAMES M., Main c. North ave., " 
Beach George W., Apalachin, " 

Briggs Mary L., 5 Park St.. " 

CRANS ABEAM P., 126 North ave., " 

DtrrCHERMERRITTT.,0Terl5LakeBt., " 
FRANK JOHN, 115 Main, 
GREENLEAF JOHN T., 101 Main St., 
HBATON CARLTON R., Park cor. Main, " 
Jansen Jesse W., 60 North ave., " 

LEWIS GEORGE B.. Lake cor. Main, " 
LEWIS ISAAC W., r'314, Apalachin, " 

*NEWGEON MARY F., 295 Main St., " 
PEAESALL ANDREW T., Taylor Blk., 

Main cor. Spencer ave., " 

STEARNS PHINEHAS S., " 

♦WILSON JAMES, 295 Main St., 
AUen James, Main St., Richford 

DAVIS GEORGE W,, Main st., Spencer 

Fisher Wilham H., Main St., " 

Homlston Ezra W., Main st. " 

NORRIS ALONZO, " 

Tanner John H., Center st., " 

CATLIN JAMES H., r 43, Tioga Center, Tioga 
HOLLENBACK CHARLES E., r 21, 

Halsey Valley, "■ 

Knapp Sylvester, Smithboro, " 

McDonald Charles H., r 68. Smithboro, " 
Post Albert W., r 51, Tioga Center, " 

White Leon, Halsey Valley, ' " 

J Planing Mills. 

BINGHAM BEOS., Lockwood, Barton 

GILLETT W. E., Reniff. " 

VAIL A. V. C. & CO., Lockwood, " 

GEIDLEY S. EGBEET, Candor 

BUECH & WELLS, Newark Valley 

FENDERSON JOHN, , Nichols 

CAMPBELL & LAMPHEEE, Apalachin, 

Owego 
Weed J. D. & G. W., " 



JONES STEPHEN W., r 9, Owego, Tioga. 

TRIBE CHARLES H., Tioga Center, " 

Poultry Dealers and Raisers. 

(See also Produce Dealers.) 
Councilman Edwin W., r 35, (breeder) 
NOBLE LYMAN B., (dealer) 
STEVENS HENRY W., r 42, (raiser) " 

GOODRICH STEPHEN 8., r 46, Owego, " 

Printing Offices. 

♦FREE PRESS, James B. Bray, prop., 

15 Fulton St., Waverly, Barton 

♦THE WAVERLY ADVOCATE, E. L. 
Vincent, prop. , 4 Elizabeth, Waverly, ' ' 

♦WAVERLY TRIBUNE, Noble & Noble, 
props., EUzabeth st., Waverly, " 

♦TIOGA COUNTY HERALD, Nohle& 

Purple, props., Newark VaUey 

BROCKWAY LEON L., 34 Lake st., Owego- 

♦OWEGO GAZETTE, L. W., Engman, 
prop., 28 Lake St., " 

♦OWEGO RECORD, Scott & Watros, 
props., 172 Front st., " 

♦OWEGO TIMES, W. Smyth & Son, 
props., 193 Main st., ' 

SLATER FRANK B., 75 Paige cor. Tem- 
ple sta., . ■' 

♦SPENCER HERALD, VanGelder & 

Son, props.. Main St., Spencer 

Produce (Country) Dealers. 

(See also General Merchants.) 

Jones John R., 268 Broad St., Waverly, 

Barton. 
Ball George P., (buyer) Berkshire 

COLLINS JUNIUS, (dealer) 
Lynch Eugene P., " 

Manning Alexander D., (buyer) '■ 

Waldo EUjah B., WiUiam st., " 

WILLIAMS MOBRIS,A.,(potatoes) 
BAEROTTAMMIEL W., Weltonville, Candor 
HART LEWIS A., Main St., " 

Kyle S. F. & Co., Catatonk, " 

Strong Joel H., r 98, " 

DIMMICK & YOUNG, (shippers) 

Newark Valley 
JAYNE & BALL, " 

Bliven. Cranston, Main st., Nichols- 

DUNHAM EBENEZER, Main St., " 

Harris, DeGroat li, Co., Main st., " 

BARTON ISAAC W-& CO., 114 Front St., 

Owego 
Barton William, Apalachin, " 

Delavan Irving J., Front St., " 

Hover Robert, (buyer) 274 North ave., " 
Jewett Charles, r 104, Apalachin, " 

RODMAN CHARLES, Front st., " 

Rodman Edward D., Main cor. Court St., " 
SLEEPER & WHITTAKER, Apalachin, " 
SPEERS WILUAM S., 207 North ave., " 
SMITH FRED W., 38 Lake St., " 

Stedman Wheeler, r 40, FlemingviUe, " 

STILES & SIBLEY, 

TRUMAN G., SONS & CO., 174 Front St., " 
Finch Philander W., Richford 

MILLER WILLIAM F., Main st., " 

Moore Charles H„ (butter and eggs) " 

SWARTOUT M. L & SON, Academy St., 

Spencer 
EVELIEN ALFRED, Tioga Center, Tioga. 
Pepper Jackson S., r 60, Smithboro, " 



REAL ESTATE — SOAP MANUFACTORIES. 



237 



Real Estate. _ 'J_" 

Parshall Luther, Waverly, Barton 

Tew William E., 2l4 Broad st., Waverly, " 
SPAULDING U. P., Main St., • Candor 

NIXON OHAELES D., Front cor. Court, 

Owego 
Pumpelly James P., South Side, " 

Stebbins Barney M., 34 Lake St., " 

Restaurants. 

(See also Hotels.) 
Head Richard, 252 Broad st., Wa- 
verly, Barton 
SWAIN LESTER, Pulton St., Waverly, ■ " 
WEBBS DINING HALL, (Henry A. 
Webb, prop.) 216 Broad st., Wa- 
verly. ' ' 
•Griner John N., Depot st., Berkshire 
Wilbur William E., 182 Main st., Owego 

Saw Mills. 

(See also Lumber Manufacturers and Dealers.) 
Aokley Alex. W., Lookwood, Barton 

BINGHAM BEOS., Lookwood, " 

Bogart John, Waverly, " 

Cornell William, " 

GILLETT W. E., Eeniff, " ' 
HANNA CHAELES P., off r 66, Faotoiy- 

viUe, " 
Lott George W., r 1, Van EttenviUe, 

Chem. Co., " 

TAIL A. V. C. & CO., Lookwood, " 
Akins Henry S., rl8, Speedsville, Tomp. 

Co., Berkshire 

Ball John, " 

JAPHET MILO G., " 

Williams George, " 
.BAEKOTT SAMUEL E., r 82, Welton- . 

ville, Candor 

Hoose <fc Hasbrouck, Willsey ville, •' 

HUBBAED WILLIAM H., r 98, " 

Snyder Dewitt M., WiUseyvUle, r 1, " 

Mayo Hiram, r 29, " 

VAN DEUSEE H <fc M., Catatonk, r 133, " 

White Morgan A., WillseyviUe, " 
BUBCH & WELLS, Newark VaUey 
CLINTON & BUEBOUGHS, r 9, 
Davis Franklin, r 25, " 
White George W., " 
WiUiams Lucius E., " 
HUNT ADONIJAH, r 37, Owego, Nichols 

iiounsberry John, r 21, " 

Loveland Seth H., Waverly, ' 
NICHOLS STEAM SAW MILL, John 

Penderson, prop. , ' ' 
PEAR8ALLL. BUEE, r 5, Hooper's Val- 
ley, " 
CAMPBELL <fc LAMPHEEE, Apalachin, 

Owego 

Curtis Harmon, r 35, Gaskill's Corners, " 

POSTEE LEONAED, r 27, ' 

Kile George O., r 95, " 
Bounds Simeon, r 83 Apalachin, 
Searles Homer, r 16J^, Plemingville, 
Tobey James D., r 83, Apalachin, 

Weed J. D. & G. W., " 
ALLEN J. W., r 18, , Eiohford 
Cooper Ephraim A., r 3, Slaterville, 

Tomp. Co., " 
PINCH H. S. & C. W., 
HAEPOED MILLS, Prancis Granger & 

Son, prop., ' 

Tobey Josiah G., r 26, ' 



Tioga 



TUBES GAMALIEL C, 6enter_Lisle, 

Brddihe Co.,"r'36,' Eiohford 

EASTHAM SAMUEL, r 37, W. Candor, 

Spencer 
Emery James C„ r 13, " 

Mowers Jaoolj H., r 20 1-2, North Spencer. '■ 
SEELY S. ALFRED, " 

Signer Albert, r 2, North Spencer, 
Doane Timothy, r 3, Strait s Corners, 
JONES STEPHEN W.. r 9, Owego, 
Signer Charles, r 36, Tioga Center, " 

Snyder Henry A., r 5, Strait's Corners, " 
TRIBE OHAELES H., Tioga Center, 
WILLMOT JAMES E., r 28, Owego, 

Seedsmen. 

(See also General Merchants, also Hardware.) 

Barnum & Personius, 264 Broad St., 

Waverly, Barton 

Corwin Oliver B., 270 Broad st., Waverly, " 
SnefSn & Scott, Broad st., Waverly, " 

Sewing JUachines. 

Slawson Jeremiah M., 202 Broad St., 

Waverly, '• 

Sherwood Warren D,, Newark VaUey 

Lewis John A., r 95, Candor 

Shoemakers. 

(See also Boots and Shoes.) 

Corwin Lewis, Broad st., Waverly, Barton 
Donnelly Owen, 218 Erie st., Waverly, " 
Hanford Clark, Factory ville, " 

Hill George W., 127 Broad St., Waverly, •' 
Mahoney John, Broad St., Waverly, " 

Boot Eansom R., Main st., " 

Houk Daniel, r 35, Wilson Creek, Berkshire 
Cornish Albert A., r 95, Candor 

Graham Andrew J., Weltonvllle, " 

Legg Stillman J., Main st., " 

Benton Lyman C, r 1, JenksviUe, 

Newark Valley 
Hall Sheridan G., r 22, JenksviUe, " 

HAVENS GEOBGE, 

Holdridge Ira J., r 11, Ketohumville, " 

WOOD HENEY A., '■ 

VanNess William W., Main st., Nichols 

Basford James, 150 Eiver St., South Side, 

Owego 
Bennett Nathaniel, Fox st., " 

Branch Andrew, r 54,' Campville, " 

Collins William, Lake St., ' " " 

Oo'urtright Herbert N., r 106, Apalachin, " 
MOETON LEVI, Apalachin, " 

Pease George, 160 North ave., '■ 

Shupp Lawrence, 18 Lake st., " 

Thornton Thomas, r 27, " 

AYEES JAMES W., . Eiohford 

Bell Augustus E., Main St., " 

Garey Daniel, r 2, North Spencer, Spencer 
Montgomery Wm., " 

Brown Alvah S., Halsey VaUey, Tioga 

French Jeremiah, Tioga- Center, " 

Goodenough Chaunoey J., Main st., 
Tioga Center, " 

Soap Manufactories. . 

Beseler . C. WiUiam, cor. Temple and 

Liberty sts., Owego 

Excelsior Soap Factory, 37 Temple St., '■ 
EMPIRE SOAP WORKS, office 83 North 
ave., " 



238 -TIQGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



P. C. VanGelper, C. J. VawGelder. 



-THE > 



SPENCER HERALD 



R Five Cnluiiin QnartD WEEkly ]NrBA7i;-spepBr; 
Eight Pages, Party Cnlumns, 



VAN GELDER & SON, P. C. VAN GELDER, . 

Publishers. Editor and Proprietor. 



SPEKClElKt TI®eA €©UKTY9 K. ¥. 



It-has alarge and grawing circulatlnn/is anautspaken 
IndEpEndBnt Jnurnal, and has a lihEral local advartlsing 
patrnnage, 

The afhcE is IncatEd in the EstrEmE northwEst cDrnEr 
nf Tioga Conntyj N, Y,, and adjoining Tompkins and 
ChEmnng ConntiES. Two railroads run through the 
place— thE E, C, & N, and the G-, I, & S',— which make 
it invalnahlE to local advErtisEPS, 



SPORTING GOODS — WOOLEN MILL. 



339- 



Sporting Goods. 

Bennet Stephen, Broad st., Waverly, Barton 
Waring Norman K., (fly rod manuf.) 

Newark Valley 
Beach D. & Co., 197 Main St., Owego 

PIERCE WALLACE C, Eiohford 

Station Agents. 
AtwoodWm. W., (D. L. &W.,) Waverly, Barton- 
Clock C. E., (G. r. & 8.,) Factoi7Ville, " 
HubbeU Nelson, (Erie R. E..) Waverly, " 
Kane Edward M., " 

HAGADOEN DEWITT C, Lookwood, " 
Waldo Elij ah B. , William st. , Berkshire 

BROWN FRANK W., West Candor, Candor 
HEATH PRANK L., Main St., " 

Smith H. A„ r 1S3, Catatonk, " 

Rookwood Lorenzo F., (S. C. E. E.) 

Newark Valley 
KIRBY ALLEN B., (D. L. & W. R. R.) Nichols 
DEAN CAMERON B., (N. Y. L. E. & W.) 

Owego 
Corey William H., (.D. L. A W.) " 

Gale WiUiam E., (S. C. R. E.) " 

STEELE AAEON, (D. L. & W.) Apala^ 

chin, " 

Eich Lucien D., Eichford 

Cook Anderson B., North Spencer, Spencer 
Howell Myron P., (G. L & S.) " 

Mills Henry C, (E. C. & N,) 
Bellis William L., (Erie E. E.) Smith- 

boro, Tioga 

Sanderson P. W. N., Tioga Center, " 

Stimpson Henry, (S. C. E. E.) gmithboro, " 

Tanners. 
DECKER TANNERY, A. I. Decker, prop., 

Paotoryville, Barton 

DAVIDGE, HOBTON & CO., Berkshire 

Hulmboldt Tannery, Candor 

DAVIDGE, LANDFIELD & CO.,Newark Valley 
CAMPBELL AEBA, Talcott St., Owego 

DEAN H. N. & SON, North ave., " 

Quirin J. G. &. Co., Tioga Center, Tioga 

Telegraph Operators. 

Beach Arthur' N., Waverly, Barton 

Bixby Fred, Waverly, " 

Corey Leonel C, Factory ville, " 

HAGADOEN DeWITT C, Lookwood, " 

Kane Edward M., " 

Kinney F. Eloise, Waverly, " 

Soanldn Martin, Waverly, " 
SMITH JAMES H.. Factory ville, 

Steele Edward J., Waverly, " 

Patch Eobert C, Main st., Berkshire 

BROWN FRANK W., West Candor, Candor 

German Edward C, " 

Merrill Nellie, Willsey ville, " 
Joslin Joseph D., r il, Newark Valley 

Rockwood Lorenzo F., " 

Kennedy John M., Nichols 

i BarmeS' Katie, 73 Liberty St., Owego 

FiUiiiKS John, 73 Liberty st., " 
BROWN PATRICK, 182 River, South Side, |' 
Dee James, 313 Main ut.. 

Fox Lewis L., Apalachiu, " 

Gale William E., (S. C. R. R.) " 

Pert WiUiam, 31 Front at., " 

Yothers Horace, " 

Lacy Louis V., Eiohford 



Robinson James. Eicliford' 

Eobinson Fred J., " 

Cook Anderson B., North Spencer Spencer 

Denniston Chagter B., i " 

PALMEE HEMAN L„ " 

Hanmer George W., r 9, Catatonk, ■ Tioga 

PUkington Charles, r 9, Catatonk, " 

Tobacco and Cigars. 

Clark & Ealyea, 275 Broad St., Waverly, 

Barton. 
Ferguson Hartwell M. & Co., 200 Broad 

St., Waverly, " 

Myers Charles K., 201 Broad st., Wa- 
verly, " 
NICHOLS HURLEX L., 213, Broad St., 

Waverly, " 

Ziegler Benjamin F., Johnson st., Wa- 
verly, " 
Hart Colden H., r 34, Wilson Creek, Berkshire 
MATTHEWS ISAIAH, r 38, (manuf.) Nichols 
Barton George W., 191, Main st., Owego 
Gavell Edward, 169, Main St.. '■ 
Ogden Aaron, 7 Lake stU " 

Toy Manufacturers. 

Crandall Charles M.,Broadst.,Waverly, Barton 

Undertakers. 
Fessenden Harvey G., Waverly, " 

Slawson Andrew A., Waverly, " 

Sweet C. W., 243 Broad st., Waverly, " 

CAEGILL WILLIAM, Newark VaUey 

HUBBARD &. KING, 29 Lake, St., Owego 

Matson John L., 183 Front St., " 

PIERCE WALLACE C, Richford 

PALMER J. H. A SON, Main St., Spencer 

Variety Stores. 
Brewster Curtis, Broad st.. Waverly, Barton. 
ENGLEMAN GUS, 131 Broad st., Waverly, " 
McDonald DUNCAN J., 247, Broad St., 

Waverlv, " 

BALL JOHN P., 170 Front St., Owego- 

Lainhart George, 212 Front St., " 

SLATER FRANK B., 75 Paige cor. Tem- 
ple 8tS., " 
Straus Juhus L., 43 Lake St., " 

Veterinary Surgeons. 
Sherry J. Eobert, 6 Pine St., Waverly, Barton 
PEATT MARSHALL D., Berkshire 

Heath James H.. r 30, Wilseyville, Cander- 

MILK8 WILLIAM J., Spencer St., 
Burr William H., Newa^-k Vallev 

PORGASONTHADDEUS, Central ave., Owege 

Wood Turning. 
BROOKS AUGUSTUS, Lockwood, Barton 
COLEMAN CHAELES H., Lockwood, " 
PAENHAM OSGAE E., r 49^, Nichols 

FARNHAM HERBERT, off r 12, Owego, Tiojra. 
JONES STEPHEN W., r 9, Owego. " 

Wool Carding. 
FARNHAM HERBERT, off r 12, Owego, Tiogo- 

Wool Dealers. 
COLLINS JUNIUS, Berkshire 

Bliss, Thompson & Co., 174 Front St., Owego 
PITCHEE DANIEL M., 175 Front St., 

Woolen Mill. 
BARAGER CHARLES P., Candor- 



240 TIOGA COUNTY DIRECTORY. 



-^•■THK''!^ 




"Tribune 



A. LIVE LOCAL NEWSPAPER. 



GIVES ALL THE LOCAL, COUNTY AND NEAR- 
BY HAPPENINGS. 



FIRST IN THB WEEK, 



IS ALWAYS FREE FROM VULGARITY. 



IS A GOOD FAMILY^ NEWSPAPER THAT WE SHOULD GET $2.00 A 

YEAR FOR, BUT WE LET YOU HAVE IT FOR $1.50, ON 

ACCOUNT OF LOCAL CUSTOM. 



ADVERTISERS LIKE IT, 

BECAUSE THE READER HAS CONFIDENCE IN IT, AND BEING EIGHT- 
PAGE THERE ARE MORE CHOICE LOCATIONS FOR THEM. 



Advertisements — Rates Given on- Application. 



SOCIETIES. 241: 



SOCIETIES. 

Masonic Fraternity. 

Babton.— Waverly Lodge, No. 407, I". & A. M., meets first, third and fifth Monday eTenings- 
of each month, in Masonic Hall. 

Caynga Chapter, No. 245, B. A. M., Waverly, meets second and fourth Monday 
evenings of each month. 

Newabk Valley.— Newark Valley Lodge, No. 614, F. & A. M., meets in Davidge, LandfleldA 
Co.'s Hall, second and fourth Monday evenings of each month : E. G-. Nowlan, 
W. M. 

Nichols. — Westbrook Lodge, No. 333, F. & A. M., meets the Wednesday evening on or after 
the full moon in each month; Samael Clapp, W. M.; E. Coleman, S. W.;Dr. George 
P. Cady, Sec. 

OwEOO.— Friendship Lodge, No. 153, F. & A. M., meets on the first Wednesday evening after- 
, the first Monday in each month ; B. J ; Davis. W. M . ; ■ 0. S; Carmiohael, See . 

New Jerusalem Chapter, No. 47, R. A. M,, meets at Masonic Hall, first and third 
Mondays of each month; F. M. Ma.bee, H.P.; M. B. Watkins, Sec. 

Owego Chapter, Np. 510, E. M. E., meets at Masonic Hall, monthly, C. M. Hay- 
wood, M. W. ; N. A. Steevens, Sec. 

Ahwaga Lodge, No. 587, F. & A. M., meets at Masonic fiaU, first and third 
Tuesdays after the first Monday in each month; N? A. Steevens, W. M.; George H. 
Thompson, Sec. 

Evening Star Lodge, No. 19, F. & A. M., meets first and third Monday evenings. 

of each month, opposite Ahwaga House; 3. W. Barrett, W. M.; A. Sample, Sec. 
Spenceb. — Spencer Lodge, No. 290, F. & A. M., meets first and third Tuesday evenings of each 

month; Charles Eiker, W. M.; I. S. Stanchff, Sec. 
TioaA. — Tioga Lodge, No. 534, F. & A. M., was organized at Smithboro, 1863; William J.. 

Drake, W. M. ; John P. Swartwood, Sec. 

Temperance Societies. 

Newabk Valley. — ^North Star Lodge, No. 21, P. of T., JenksvUle, meets every Saturday eve- 
ing; Monroe Barrett, W.S.; Frank Keith, Sec. 

GwEGO.— Apalachin Lodge, No. 564, I. 0. G. T., Apalaohin; S. M. EuKson, C.T., Came Euli- 
son, Sec. 

Union Council, No. 47, E. T. of T:, ineets at Odd Fellows' Hall, the second Wed- 
nesday evening of each month; F. 8, Hodge, S.C, H. C. Brainard, Sec. 

Spenoeb. -Spencer Council. No. 181, E. T. of T., meets second and fourth Tuesday evenings 
of each month; WiUiam Swartout, 8.C., David Seely, Sec. 

Grand Army of the Republic. 

Babtok. — Stebbins Post, G. A. E., No. 361, Lookwood, meets first and third Thursday eve- 
nings of each month; Eichard Andrus, Com., G. W. Brink, Adj. 

Candob. — Candor Post, No. 383, meets at Grand Army Hall, first and third Tuesday evenings 
of each month; B. E. Cronk, Com., S, J. Legg, Adj. 

Newabk Valley. — WUhams Post, No. 245, G. A. E., meets second and fourth Saturday eve- 
nings of each month, in Eoys Block Hall; Harvey Neal, Com., B. S. Harvard, Adj. 

Nichols. — Warwick Post, No. 259, G. A. E., meets second and fourth Tuesday evenings of 
eachjnonth; WiUiam Herrick, Com., L. B. Boss, Adj. 

Owego. — Baboock Post, No. 59, G. A. E., meets every Wednesday evening, at Grand Army 
Hall; D. S. Legg, Com., O. L. NeweU, Adj. ■ 
Tracy Post, No. 613, G. A. E., Apalaohin; J. S. Giles, Com., H. J. Cooper, Adj. 

EiCHEOBD.— Belden Post, No.,342, G. A. E., meets every Saturday evening; F. Hutchinson,. 
'■' Com., N. Heath, Adj. 

Spenceb. Dawson Post, No. 464, G. A. E., meets second and fourth Saturday evenings of each 

month; W. A. Stubbs, Com., L. Brooks, Adj. 

Patrons of Husbandry. 

Babton.— North Barton Grange, No. 45, P. of H.. meets every Saturday evening; 0. S. Nichols,, 
W. M., John F. Hoyt, Sec. 

Sullivan Grange, No. 217, P. of H., meets every Saturday evening at Grange Hall,. 
Shepard's Creek; H. Bunnell, W. M., T. Hulett, Sec. 
Acme Grange. P. of H., meets weekly; B. B. Cooley, W. M., H. Stebbins, Sec. 
16 



:^42 SOCIETIES. 



"Candob. — Candor Grange, No. 203, P. of H.. meets at Grange Hall, first and third Fridays of 
each month; Epenetns Howe, W. M., G. H. Hart, See. 

WeltonviUe Grange, P. of H., meets every Thursday evening; W. E. Mead, W. M., 
H. E. Eeese, Sec. 

Strait's Corners Grange, No. 453, P. of H., meets on the first and third Saturdays 
of each month; A. L. Eider, W. M., S. Hammond, Sec. 
Nbwaek Valley.— Newark VaUey Grange, No. 476, P. of H., meets Friday evening of each 

week; W. F. Prentice, W. M., Mrs. C. S. Shaffer, Sec. 
Nichols. — Wappasening Grajige, No. 522, P. of H., meets on the first and third Saturday eve- 
nings of each month; F. G. Loiyman, W. M., Eobert P. Coryell, Sec. 
■ OwEOo. — Pomona Grange, a county organization, made up of members of subordinate 
Granges, meets regularly at Owego every three months; O. H. Van Atta of Barton, 
W. M., Mrs. B. J. Brooks of Barton, Sec. 

GaskiU Corners Grange, No. 403. P. of H., meets every Saturday evening; George 
W. Hull, W: M., Mis. G. W. Hull, Sec. 
BiCHFOBD. — Eureka Grange, No. 345, P. of H., meets every Friday evening; Mrs. Emma Jayne, 
Sec. 

Knlgbts of Honor. 

Bakton.— Waverly Lodge, No. 293, K. of H., meets every Friday evening in K. of H. HaU. 
Candor. — Candor Lodge, No. 542, K. of H., meets first and third Tuesdays of each month; 

Eichard Fields, Die, J. O. Frost, Eep, 
Nichols.— Susquehanna Lodge, K. & L. of H., meets on the first aud third Wednesday eve- 
nings of each month; Eev. H. N. Van Deusen, Prot., Sarah A. Ketcham, Sec. 
'OwEQO. — Owego Lodge, No. 54, K. of H., meets at Odd Fellows' Hall, second and foui'th 
Tuesday evenings of each month; G. Strang,^Dic^ F. A. Darrow, Eep. 

Diamond Lodge, No. 76, K. and L. of H., meets at Odd Fellows' HaU the first and 
third Tuesday of each month; S. Goodrich, Prot., M. H. Tuch, Eep. 
'TiOQA. — Tioga Lodge, No. 263, K. of H., organized at Tioga Center in 1880. 

Emerald Lodge, No. 384, K. &, L. of H., organized at Tioga Center in 1881. 

Independent Order of Odd Fellows. 

Babtok. — Manoca Lodge, No. 219, 1. 0. of O. F., Waverly, meets every Tuesday evening, in 
Odd FeUows' Hall. \ 

Spanish HUl Encampment, No, 52, L O. of O. F., Waverly, meets first, third 
and fifth Friday evenings of each month, in Odd Fellows' Hall. N. 

Cayuta Lodge, L 0. of O. F., No. 159, Lockwood, meets every Friday evening;; G. 
W. Bingham, N. G., D. C. Hagadorn, Sec. 
OwEQO.— Tioga Lodge, No. 335, L O. of 0, F., meets every Friday evening; W. L. Stewart, 
N. G., W. H. Thomas, Sec. 

Order of the Iron Hall. 

Barton. — Local Branch, No. 23, O. of L H:, Waverly, meets Monday evenings at K. of H. Hall- 
Newark Valley.— Local Branch, No. 281, 0. of I. H., meets the first and third Monday eve- 
ning of each month; Boberb Donley, C. J., D. C. Hand, Acct. 
■Owego. — Branch No. 25C, meets first and third Saturday evenings of each month; E. Eimball, 
C. J., A. S. Hooker, Acct, 
Branch No. 306, Apalachin, J. S. Giles, C. J., C. L. Barton, Acct. 

Improved Order of Red Men. 

i 
Barton.- Iroquois Tribe, No. 42, L O. of E. M., Waverly, meets every Thursday sleep at eight 

run. 
Newark Valley. — Council fire the first aud third Tuesday's sleep, each moon, in Masonic 

HaU; M. A. Howard, Sachem, H. Leonard, 0. of E. 
-OwBOO. — Ahwaga Tribe, No. 40, I. 0. of E. M., meets at the Wigwam, every Friday's sleep; 

James T. Eogers, Saohem, C. H. Keeler, C. of E. 

I Spenof-e.— Masoawa Tribe, No. 88, I. O. of E. M., meets on the second and fourth Friday's 
sleep of each moon; J. M. Stowe, Saohem, E. L. Brooks, C. of E. 



SOCIETIES^THE RATES OF POSTAGE. 243 



Miscellaneous Societies. 

Babton. — Cayuga Lodge, No. 35, A. O. U. W., Waverly,' meets every, Wednesday evening, in 
Select Knights' Hall. 

Sohoeffeld Le^on, No. 19, Select Knights of A. 0. U. W., Waverly, meets every 
Friday evening in Select Knights' Hall. 

Tioga Lodge, No. 101, K. of P., Waverly, meets at Mott's HaU every Wednesday 
evening. 

• Equitable Aid Union, No. 417., Factory ville, meets every Thursday evening; J. C. 
Wood, Dis. Dep. Supreme Pres.', F. A. Squires, Pres., Fred Brewster, Sec. 
Camdob.— Candor Council, Boyal Arcanum, No. 928; H. P. Potter, Beg., F. S. Woodford, Sec. 
OwEGK). — Progressive Assemblv, No. 3147, K. of L., meets every Tuesday evening; M. J. 
Murrey, M. W., J. A. Dodge, B. S. 

Star Lodge, No. 91, A. O. TJ. W., meets on the second and fourth Monday evenings 
of each month; E. Fitzgerald, M. W., C. Dana, Bee. 
Spenoeb.- The Tioga County Patron's Fire Behef Association; S. Alfred Seely, Pres., L. W. 
Hull, Sec. 
Markell & Butts orchestra, four pieces. 
Eobinson Cornet Band, twelve pieces, F. 0. Eobinson, leader. 
Tioga. — Lodge No. 106, A. 0. TJ. W., meets on the second and third Mondays of each month; 
Edward M. Forman, M. W., Eobert H. Spendley, Beoorder. 



THE RATES OF POSTAGE. 

Postal carda cue cent each, to all parts of the United States and Canada. 

mEST-GLASS STATTEB— TWO CENTS PEK OUNCE OB EBACTION THEBEOF. 

Letters and all other mailable matter of other dasaes subject to letter postage by reason of a 
■violation of the postal laws, two cents per ounce to all paxta of the United States and Can- 
ada. 

EEQISTBATION, DEOP LETTEES, ETC. 

On registered domestic letters and third and fourth-class matter an additional fee of ten 
•cents is required. 

Local, or " Drop " letters, that is for the city or, town where deposited, two cents if delivered 
by carriers, and one cent if there is no carrier system,' per ounce. 

Manuscript for publication in books, (except when accompanied by proof-sheets), newspapers 
and magazines chargeable as letters. 

PBEB. 

Newspapers, to each actual subscriber in the county, where published, free of charge. 

SECOND-OLABB MATTEB— ONE CENT PEE POUND. 

Newspapers and periodicals, transient excepted, to be prepaid, at the office of pubKeation 
at one cent per pound, or fraction thereof. 

THIED-CI/ASS MATTEE — ONE GENT POE TWO ODllOEB. 

(Must not be sealed.) 

Mail matter of the third-class embraces printed books, (except transient newspapers, four 
ounces for one cent,) and periodicals, circulars, proof-sheets and corrected proof-sheets, manu- 
seript copy accompanying the same, and al^matter of the same general character, as above 
enumerated, thp printing upon which is designed to instruct, amuse, cultivate the mind or taste, 
or impart general information, and postage sha)U be paid thereon at the rate of one cent for 
each two ounces or fractional part thereof. 

EOnBTH-OLASS MATTEE — ONE CENT FOE EACH OUNCE. 

Man matter of the fourth-class embraces labels, patterns, photographs, playing cards, 
visiting cards, address tags, paper sacks, wrapping paper and blotting pads with or without 
printed address thereon, ornamented paper, and all other matter, of the same general charac- 
ter, the printing upon which is not designed to instruct, amuse, cultivate the mind or taste, or 
impart general information. This class also includes merchandise, and samples of merohan- 



244 THE RATES OF POSTAGE — POSTOFFICES AND POSTMASTERS. 

dise, models, samplesof ores, metals, minerals,, seeds, &c., and any other matter not included in 
the first, second or third-class, and which is not in its form or nature liable to destroy, deface 
or otherwise damage the contents of the mail-bag, or harm the person of any one engaged in 
the postal service. Postage rate thereon, one cent for each ounce or fractional part thereof. 

Packages of mail-matter must not exceed four pounds each in weight, except in cases of sin- 
gle volumes of books. 

UndeUvered letters and postal cards can be re-sent to a new address without additional ch»rge. 

Senders may write their names on transient newspapers, books or any package in either 
class, preceded by the word " from." 

Stamps out from the stamped envelopes are rejected by the postoffioe. . 

Stamped envelopes and wrappers, postal cards, and stamps of different denominations for 
sale at the postofSces. 

Stamped envelopes accidentally spoiled redeemed at the postoffioe where bought. 



POSTOFFICES AND POSTMASTERS. 



POSTOFFICES. 

Apalachin, 

Barton, 

Berlishire, 

CampvUle, 

*Candor, 

CatatonU, 

Connecticut, 

East Nichols, 

PactoryviUe, 

PlemingsvUIe, 

Gaskill's Comers, 

Halsey Valloy, 

Hooper's Talley, 

Jenksville, 

Ketohumville, 

LockwQod, 

"Newark Valley, 

Nichols, 

North Barton, 

North Spencer, 

*Owego, 

Eeniff, 

Eiehford, 

Smithsboro, 

South Apalachin, 

South Owego, 

*Spencer, 

Strait's Corners, 

Tioga Center, 

*Waverly, 

Weltonville, 

West Candor, 

West Newark, 

Willseyville, 

Wilson Creek, 



Owego, 

Barton, 

Berkshire, 

Owego, 

Candor, 

Candor, 

Newark Valley, 

Nichols, 

Barton, 

Owego, 

Owego, 

Tioga, 

Nichols, 

Newark Valley, 

Newark Valley, 

Barton, 

Newark Valley, 

Niehols, 

Barton, 

Spencer, 

Owego, 

Barton, 

Eiehford, 

Tioga, 

Owego, 

Owego, 

Spencer, 

Tioga, 

Tioga, 

Barton, 

Candor, 

Candor, 

Newark Valley, 

Candor, 

Berkshire. 



POSTMASTEBS. 

Frank J. Knapp. 
John B. Coleman. 
John B. Ford. 
McEenzie Dickinson, 
John E. Chidsey. 
Alanson H. Smith. 
James DeGaramo. 
Elizabeth A. White. 
Clarence E. Clock. 
Charles E. Truman. 
Harmon Curtis. 
Grant M. West. 
Lucas T. Field. 
Samuel M. Avery. 
Charles Finch. 
George D. Brock. 
Sherman W. Byington. 
Emmet Coleman. 
Edmund H. Hoyt. 
Mahlou A. KeUogg. 
Frederick O. Cable. 
Willis E. GiUett. 
Charles A. Clark. 
William J. Drake. 
Alonzo Bills. 
Lyman B. Truman. 
Marvin D. Fisher. 
Alvinza Strait. 
Joseph Winters. 
Andrew A. Slawson. 
Andrew J. Graham. 
Charles F. Gridley. 
Willis E. Hover. 
Emory C. Mix. 
Colden N. Hart. 



Rate of Commission Charged for Money Orders. 

On orders not exceeding $10, eight cents ;over $10, and not exceeding $15, ten cents ; over 
$45, and not exceeding $30, fifteen cents : over $30, and not exceeding $40, twenty cents ;. 
over $40, and not exceeding $50, twenty-five cents ; over $50, and not exceeding $60, thirty 
cents ; over $60, and not exceeding $70, thirty-five cents ; over $70, and not exceeding $80, 
forty cents ; over $80, and not exceeding $100, fortv-flve cents. No single order issued for a 
greater sum than $100. 



•"Money order offices. 



